Okay? So let's start. Any questions for me.
Remember your you know it's time to choose your projects. I believe you know you are all having
active discussions about what products to choose. Hopefully, many of you have decided so that you can do the
write up on the course project, which is homework 3, which is due this
Friday. So any questions about that.
So things are on track looks like hopefully.
I know that several of you have emailed me questions separately about the projects and I've replied to.
Oh, I think all of you, in case I've missed anybody. Please feel free to remind me? Huh?
Okay, couple of other. Sorry. Go ahead.
Is there any presentation or anything, or it's just the like a report
Oh, you mean for the first, st for the 1st home for choosing the project. It's just like a written submission. And then, of course, towards the end of the class. When you have done the project there'll be project presentations
Thanks.
Okay, okay. you've all gotten your midterm grades.
there have been several questions. I think we've had right about how to
possibly make up the midterm in case you have not done well.
So the following is what we will do.
which is essentially that you can try to make up some of the midterm. Not all of it, but some of the midterm grades by your project.
And so currently the project counts as 30%, and the midterm counts as 25%.
So total of 55% of the class.
And so currently, the distribution is 25 to the midterm and 30% weightage to the project.
And what we will do is we can take the maximum of. So you have. You can have 2 scores
in the alternate scenario. We can have the midterm count as 15%.
And the project out does 40%.
And then for each student, we'll just take the Max of this and give them that particular
score out of the 55.
Okay, does that answer some of the questions about making up the midterm
Oh, I had a quick question regarding the grades. I was trying to
Go ahead!
I was just like trying to look on the course website to see what the cutoffs were for an A, A minus B, etc.
So I was. I was going to come to that
No.
So let me just say what it is. So
this is like a graduate course. Right? So typically.
if you've done all the work, the midterm
the project and the homework. I very rarely gave out
C's, and these, of course, if you don't do stuff for the project. You know there is a chance that people could fail the course, but the I generally don't give out season days, and
oh, you know a fair number of students in the class
would get. Nay, we have like so so that's the
the great and and so yes. So the answer to your question is, it's not like the absolute scores are the one, but we will, we will curve it.
and it'll be like a relative performance.
Lushab. That good? Does that answer your question?
Yes, thank you.
Yeah, so, and generally like, this is a graduate course.
I know that many of you who are taking the course are, you know, undergrads who wanted to take this course.
Generally the philosophy that I have in grading is
like, if you are. For example, if I set up a cut cut off of 80, and you are.
you know, 79.5. Then I will push you to the higher grade.
Okay, generally. I don't. I'll give you the benefit of doubt in general.
Okay, okay. So that was the 2. The 2 things about grading right? One is curving it
and just giving you the philosophy of migrating, and then the second is the concrete step that we will take or you can take to. You know better.
In some sense, your midterm score, which is basically do better on the product.
Any questions
does that sound good?
I can't actually, you know, like, if I was in a room I would hear some
nodding or so. I can see whether people feel good about that.
But that makes sense to me.
Okay, okay, good.
And then the other last part that I wanted to talk about is, someone had asked about compute resources for the projects. So we have secured
some amount of compute from Gcp, which is Google Cloud program and
you'll be able to use that. Now whether
that'll be totally adequate for all your project needs. We're not quite sure
we think the project 2 and 4 where you know you are doing this
stuff about the Llms. For the course material, and then
the final project, which was about hallucinations and so on. I think you should be able to use it. You will be using Gemini because it is Gcp for that I think it should be enough. But for projects one and 3. We're not quite sure we are going to try and secure some other compute resources also from
Tag. And then, you know, I'm assuming that some of you might have your own
compute from, you know the research lab that you work in, if any. So that's kind of the situation where we are. With respect to
compute Nilesh, I don't know if you want to add anything, do that
That's mostly it the
But for for the Google Cloud Cloud Credit thing. I'll just send on an announcement soon.
and you can also meet me in the office hours. If you want to work through that solution
Okay.
okay, thanks. Nidesh, okay, so any questions about anything that I said, so far, today's class. If not, then I'll start today's lecture.
Sorry. I'm just trying to find my slides 1 min.
I think it's this one.
Yeah.
okay. And
hopefully, everybody can see the slides. Somebody should just jump on. Say, if you can see the slides
I can see the slides
Okay, awesome. Thank you. Okay. So we're actually gonna talk a little bit about like language modeling today. Because, you know, many of the projects are about Llms. So today we'll talk about you know, just
dealing with text data in the beginning. Talk a little bit about Rnn ends.
Talk about attention, and then we'll start delving into the transformers, which we will. Maybe we'll come to it at the end of today. But we'll definitely talk about it more on Wednesday.
Okay, so natural language processing, you know, what kind of representations do you use for documents and sentences? Right? So this is actually a really old problem.
somebody. In the 19 sixties, a professor at Cornell, Jerry Salton had come out with like a vector, space model.
which was taking a document
and representing it as a vector typically very sparse and very, very high dimensional. Okay?
And of course.
there's been amazing progress on it in the last decade or so. But you know, early days, what people would do is use what's called either the vector. Space model or a bag of words. Right. So, for example, if you have the sentence on the left, which is
the International. Oh, and I guess you can't see my cursor right, but you can see it when I highlight it.
So I'll try. So if, for example, over here, you see, the International Conference on Machine Learning is the leading International academic conference in machine learning. The bag of words would basically collect all the words. You know, international
appears twice over here on the left.
And so you give a count of 2.
Conference appears twice. Machine and learning appears twice. The word train does not appear.
the word leading appears one, and then, of course, there are other words that may not appear in this document. Right? So typically, the
number of non zeros in this representation will be very few per document.
And d is the dimensionality. And that's actually, very, very huge. It would be, for example, the number of words
in your overall corpus.
right? Not just in the sentence. And so it'll be very, very high. Dimensional D could actually be in the millions or tens of millions.
And but each document would just have number of non zeros, probably proportional to the length of the document. Okay.
so that was like a classical way that a lot of machine learning was done.
and and it is still done in some places right. But that was classically how it was done. I would say, before 2,010. Okay? And you know, one of the issue issues with that is that the number of features which is the number of potential words is very, very large.
You can say, Okay, can I make the model a little bit more sophisticated instead of just having
a single word? Can I actually have pie grams, which is sequences or or 2 words that occur together.
So you know, for example, machine learning often goes together. That is a particular 2 gram. And in this particular example it appears twice
right, whereas you know other things like you basically look at all possible pairs over here, and then maybe threshold them based upon how many times they occur or not. Right? The problem is that you know, if you have 10,000 words.
then the number of features becomes quadratic. Right? So that's just very, very big.
And a lot of language modeling pre neural network was actually trying to figure out. You know how to deal with M. Grabs.
what?
So again, what people would do using the bag of words? Matrix was.
have some heuristics to decide what the importance of a word in a document was. Right. So, for example.
if you see the word the right, or it
appear well, it's not often very informative about the document, right? So you may want to downweigh the contribution of that word in the document. So typically, what people would do is use the bag of words matrix, right? With the normalized version, right? And this normalized version is some is one of the versions is called
tf, idf, which is term frequency, inverse document frequency for a particular data set. Okay? And so in particular, Tfidf
of, you know this, the the way you compute it in a document, matrix d for a particular document, and for a particular word.
is that you look at the term frequency of the word in that particular document that captures kind of the local importance of that word in that document.
And then Idf is basically something that tries to capture the importance of the word
in the entire document corpus. And this is where things can can kind of get tricky. Right? For example.
I think there was an operating system developed in the 19 sixties, I think, in in Netherlands which was actually called the THE. Right? So if you're talking about operating systems, maybe the word the should not be decreased so much. And that's actually one of the, you know. Problems with this bag of words approach, but at least but but for now let's talk about what
tfs, right? So the term frequency, like, I said, is a local measure
of the importance of the word or the centrality of the word in that document. And so this is typically, you know, word count in the document, and you want to try to normalize it right. You don't want to give, and maybe undue importance to the number of terms in the document, so you can abstract away the length right? So this is what word count in the document divided by total number of words. Okay?
And then idea says that, hey? You know, I should probably decrease the contribution of a word in a corpus.
if it occurs too many times, like the word, the or the word it.
or if you have a collection of documents about machine learning, maybe downgrade the importance of the words machine learning. If all the documents contain machine learning and typically the downgrading is not linear, but it is actually nonlinear. Right? So tfidf is, you know you do one plus. And then you take
the number of documents in which the word occurs. Sorry. The total number of documents
divided by the number of documents which this word occurs in right. So, for example, if that word occurs in all the documents right, then this quantity, then within the logarithm is one.
and this would be 0. So you would have one, be the inverse document frequency, whereas if it occurs very rarely.
Then, you know, for example, this would be one.
This would be one plus log times the number of documents. So this would be higher, which means that this whole quantity would be higher. Okay? So here is at the bottom. There is an example
of how you compute tfidf and so you know, think of documents as the titles of
newspapers. Right? So the 1st one is New York Times.
Okay, the columns are the words
and the rows of the document. So d, 1 is New York Times. So you have one in New one in times, one in New York.
d. 2 is New York Post.
and D 3 is the Los Angeles times.
and when you compute the Tfidf you are looking at the columns in some sense, right here know what occurs more than once.
right? But there are some words that appear twice. Okay, for example, new times and York.
okay. So they those. So in d 1.
The fact that you have New
York and Times, all of them get downgraded a little bit.
whereas you have New York post over here post doesn't appear anywhere else. So it actually gets a higher weight.
Okay? And in D 3, Los Angeles appears more right, and then times gets downgraded a little bit more.
Okay? So it's just like a heuristic which people found to work quite well.
Now, I kind of have said that this is you know, like
Pre 2,010, I'll actually take that back a little bit, because
even now, I think in search engines and so on. Sometimes it's actually quite important to have
this way of returning search results.
For example, if you are doing like this needle in a haystack kind of thing
right. So suppose I actually remember that one of my colleagues at once kind of chosen a name or something that was very unique. And there was basically only one document in the world that on the one web page in the world that was his web page that contained that sequence of characters. Right. So if you're just looking for something very specific, and the user wants it
to match exactly, then you know, this way of doing retrieval
might actually be better than any other way. Right? So, even though you know we have like, I will talk to you things about transformers, and so on sometimes. And of course, this would be very cheap, right? It's very easy to recover a single document that has a particular set of words
using the appropriate data structures.
Okay, so even though this is like old style, I think that in most modern search engines you, nobody is going to get rid of this way of representation and then searching right? One because of the cost and some because of the needle in the history problem.
Okay, so
how do you think, do things like, you know text classification. Suppose you want to predict the sentiment of a particular sentence or review, or you want to predict, predict the
actual numerical score.
You know, we've seen in class before that we can use a linear model
right? The linear model is, you know, W transpose X,
and you can, for example, use the sign of it to say whether it is class One or class 2,
and this W. We have seen that we can compute, for example, using logistic regression, or we can look at linear Svm, right? And W are the coefficients.
So so remember, X would be the bag of words, representation of a particular document, right, that you want to classify right so wi, which will correspond to the word xi. Will be essentially the contribution of that particular word. So that's kind of the simple way of doing things. And that's every. That's what you know the way we did things
pre 2,015, I would say pretty much everywhere. Okay.
But now, of course, we have these more powerful neural networks. Right? So suppose I have, like a fully connected network, or Mlp, like a multi-layer perceptron, right?
so kind of ignoring the bias right? The neural network is essentially kind of a composition of linear transformations
with some nonlinearity. Right? So, W. Naught. X. Sigma, then w. 1 of this.
and so on. Okay. And your final prediction is WL. Times plus
sequence of operations or the forward pass through this neural network. Okay.
I think one thing to look at is the 1st layer itself.
right. The 1st layer is d 1 by d matrix, right? D is the dimensionality of X.
Okay. So if you think about each, oh, column wi.
it is of this W dot matrix.
it is a d 1 dimensional representation of the iet world.
Okay? Because if I, for example, if I take X
to be the vector that has zeros everywhere, and only 1 1 in the I-th place.
Well, that just says that this is the one hard encoding of this particular word in this t dimensions.
and that if you multiply it by W. Naught, you will see that it will pick out the ith column wi of this particular matrix. W. Naught.
So you can think of Wi as sort of a d. 1 dimensional representation of the is word, and that, as you have probably seen or read many times is called the embedding of word. I. Okay. And then what does W. Naught x mean? Right? If you think about W. Naught. X.
Right? If you have a particular document or sentence or so, X will be non 0 in the precise words, or in, you know, tokens
these days, and this is going to be. You can write this as x 1 times. The 1st column of w, 1
plus x 2 times the second column of W. 2 is basically taking the linear combination of these word embeddings.
Okay? And you know, in most cases, you know, you'll only have a few of these wi's or xi's that are non 0. Maybe most most of them will be actually 0.
So this matrix W naught is called the word embedding matrix. So
think of what I said before about the vector space model.
right? That was representing each
document kind of in this sparse, very high dimensional space.
Now, what you're doing is in in neural networks. You're taking the words, and you're going to represent them as d, 1 dimensional.
Where d. 1 is actually much, much smaller. So in most cases it might be 1,024, or 2,048, much smaller than the total number of ports.
Okay?
And then the final prediction can be viewed kind of as an L minus one layer network on W. Naught. X, right? So you can basically think of the prediction from here. And it's basically saying that you know, I take the W. Naught X,
and I'm looking at an L minus one dimension. Okay, now note.
But so far it's still looking at kind of like a bag of words. Representation.
There's nothing that says that I'm actually capturing the real sequence information in language.
Okay? And that's what the modern architectures really excel at right? Which is the transformers.
But this is, you know, like one attempt to do it with neural networks.
Okay. But since they don't capture the sequence information
right? We look at these alternate neural networks which are called recurrent neural networks.
But before I move on to the the that topic, any questions so far.
Okay, so let's move on to recurrent neural networks. So these are also for Rnns, so in rns.
So really, let's think a little bit about sequential data. Right?
So suppose the input is x 1 x 2,
through some capital T xt, where there are total number of capital T time steps.
And what you get at each step, the input at each step to this Rnn is going to be, is going to be xt, and typically, xt will be a D dimensional. Vector.
so at every time, step. T, you're feeding in
and input xt x 1 x 2 x 3 x 4 x 5. And so on.
Okay, that is being input from them.
We'll see that there are many problems where you might need to actually output at every step. Also.
okay. And that can, of course, vary right? So suppose you need to output at every step.
Then you'll have y 1 output at time. T equal to one
y. 2 output at time, t equal to 2 all the way till y capital T. And now
this Y capital, the the y's can be either a regression output.
so yt can actually belong to the real numbers.
or it could be a multi class output right? Suppose there are
a total number of L labels
right? Then each yt can belong to 1, 2 to L. It could also be that L
is, you know, in some sense
the size of the vocabulary. So when you, for example, do next word prediction.
You know, this yt could basically be quite a big space of outputs.
Okay?
And that's what we may want from this
might want as an outcome.
So classical examples where kind of time series data occurs naturally, climate data.
stock price, prediction, right and climate data. What you might have is xt might be the temperature at time. T
and yt might be the temperature or the change in temperature at the next time step.
which is time, t plus one.
And you want to try to ma to the problem would be, you want to try to predict
xt, and maybe some other features right to predict what yt will be, yt being the
temperature at time. T plus one. Okay, and we'll actually come to this very soon.
Even then language
there is this sequential structure, which is what we have taken important advantage of in, you know the design of the modern Llms.
which is that xt can be kind of the current word in the sentence.
and yt can be the next word.
and the output that you desire is given x. 1 through xt
you want to actually predict yt.
which is in some sense xt plus one, or the word that appears in the next time next after the current word, right? That's
would be the
next word prediction problem. Okay? And then, of course, you can try to do kind of
stock price prediction. Okay. But remember that
even though this is the motivation. The place where Rn ends, and later on we'll see transformers. Shine is being on natural language. Okay, I
would hesitate to do stock price prediction based on
these methods, because, you know, there have been many specialized methods developed for time series prediction.
And you know, one of the reasons why Llms are very successful at what we do right is because there's a whole lot of training data which is available. Right? You have basically trillions of tokens on the Internet
which you can use for training your neural network
right? And you know that might not be true of other examples.
So it's also basically, all I'm saying is a simple method, like next word prediction, or next
temperature. At the next time, step or stock price prediction at the next time. Click
might not be as successful as the next word prediction, just because of the amount of training data.
Okay, so let's see, language modeling is
one way you can think of. It is as kind of next word prediction. Or you can think of it, as you know. Given a particular state of the sentence, can I then predict the next word? So the differences? You know one is, you can keep on predicting at all the steps
right? Or you can have, a fixed
number of steps that you are given, and then you want to predict, and we'll see that, you know sometimes this is needed kind of in classification tasks might be very different than kind of generative tasks.
Okay, so suppose the sentence is, the cat is
okay, and you want to try to predict the next word.
think about the xt as the one hot encoding to represent the word at step. T, okay, so there's some vocabulary.
right? Might be tens of thousands, maybe even bordering on hundreds of thousands.
right? And this is just saying that
you know, if this is the Ith position, they're saying that the Ith word is the current. Input.
And in language modeling. What you want to try to do is the next word prediction.
Here. The the dimensionality of this vector, is capital B,
which is the vocabulary size, and the output is needs to be one of these words, right? All tokens.
So in particular, the will have some embedding in d dimensions, or d, 1 dimensions. Right?
Let's see, what did I say right over here? It says, each xt can be a D dimensional vector
right? So here, you know, you can
looks like d equal to 4 over here. Right? But typically, of course, in actual practice it will be something like 5, 12, or 1,024, or maybe even larger. Okay, so you see, a time step T, equal to one. You see x. 1, which is corresponds to to the word the
time. Step 2. You see x. 2, that corresponds to the word cat. Time, step 3, you see x. 3, which corresponds to the word is, and then you want to predict the next word.
Okay? And you can think about next word prediction. If you are trying to do next word, prediction is.
what do you predict after you see the word? The that's why one.
What do you predict after you see
the current sentence, which is the cat?
And then finally, how do you predict? Y, 3. The world
after you see, the cat is
okay. So that's kind of the next word prediction problem.
Okay? Now, that's not the only
prediction problem that we might have right, something that people use or or have done is.
you know, part of speech tagging right. So if you're given a sentence, can you label the words with their part of speech? So that is.
you know, annotating it with noun
verb, active adjective, and so on. Right? So, for example, if you have
like before you have a vector, to represent the word at time, step t, so this is, step t, equal to one t, equal to 2 t. Equal to 3.
So you know, xt at T equal to 4 is a vector that represents the word on.
and so on. What you want to try might want to try and do is predict the label of the word
at time T level of the word T. Sorry. Right?
So, for example, if this is, I think this is proper this is a verb.
this is a noun, and so on. So these are the different
speech tag the part of speech
labels that you want to try and predict
right. And this is like the sentence.
I guess I have a lot of practice. I used to do this as a kid. She sells seashells on the seashore. Okay, and that's the task that, for example, if you've already trained a neural network
with this part of speech tagging can you?
Can you do this? Can you take a new sentence like he sells seashells on the seashore and predict the part of speech for each
particular word.
I don't think I actually like this example too much. Can anybody tell me why this might not be a good thing to do
where yt is? Something that you have to put a label of word T.
Kind of in an Rnn kind of fashion.
Maybe I'll you know, talk a little bit about Rnn. And then we'll come back to this.
Okay, so what is a recurrent neural network?
So I think it's actually best to look at this particular, the right hand side of this figure. Okay.
so you can see that. You know, you can have
a different input vector at every time, step
xt minus one xt xt plus one. If you look at the bottom right of this particular picture.
Okay? So xt is the tf, input.
okay, you'll see that the arrows are labeled with certain matrices
on the bottom, right on the on the on the right of this figure. Right? So that means that you know.
XT, minus one is being multiplied by U,
okay, and St. Minus one is being multiplied by W. St. Is being multiplied by W,
and so on. Okay, U is common to all the States.
Right? You can think about T as indexing the States.
Okay, so xt is the hidden input
or sorry, the th input and St is the hidden state at time. T,
okay. And the dynamics of the network are as follows, of an R. And M, which is that it's
some function F of U times xt plus W. Times, St. Minus one. So if I look above.
you guys can't see my cursor, can you?
Oh, you can
Yes, we can.
Oh, you can see the cursor. Okay, that's good. Okay? Right? So so so basically, u times xt
is what's over here.
And then you have W. Times, St. Minus one W. Times, St. Minus one.
So you have u times xt plus W. Times, St. Minus one, and then you potentially apply some nonlinear
function on each of the elements. Remember that St is, you know, not just a single number. But it's a vector
right. So if you look at, for example, xt xt could be d dimensional, you
I guess in this case this is the word embedding matrix, right? So that means that xt is actually a 1 hard encoding right.
And U is the word embedding matrix. So basically it takes, oh.
these one hot, dimensional vectors, which are, you know, very high dimensional number of vocabulary and match it onto a smaller d dimensions. Right? So basically the word this matrix, which is the word embedding matrix.
right is, you know, some d times V matrix, right where V is the vocabulary size and D is the kind of hidden dimension. So typically W. Well, not typically W has to be
a square matrix, right? Because it's
multiplying by St. Minus one. And the number of rows in W is the same as the number of elements in the vector St.
So W is kind of like a transition matrix.
right? It is a square matrix.
St minus one is d dimensional.
Xt is dimension. V. Where V is the total number of
words in the vocabulary, and this matrix U is
the hidden dimension or the dimension of St and St. Minus one times. V, okay.
and typically, you can think about, you know, setting S. 0 to be 0, which is right at the beginning.
And then the way the Rnn works is that
there says on the input side, right? But then it takes V, sorry. S. The hidden dimension.
and it can map it into like an output.
Okay? And if we is, if this neural network is this, r and M is trying to do next word prediction.
It'll take the hidden state and map it back to the vocabulary. Right? So we in this case would be
the number of columns in V would be d, the hidden dimension
and the number of the words, the the number of
let's see, number of rows will be the vocabulary size, right? And if you are, for example, trying to do next word prediction, then you'll just do. Arg, Max of bst.
I'm fine.
Okay. And this on the right was kind of an unfolded sorry unfolded. Yes, unfolded figure. But you can also represent the Rnn. More compactly over here.
And what that says is that you take X, you use an embedding matrix
to get to the hidden state dimension.
and then you kind of mix it. You look at the current state. This is the input.
and the next state is given by this dynamic.
which is supposed to be represented by this part u times xt
plus W. Times St. Minus one. And then there is a nonlinear function F over here, and then to get the output ot, you basically go from here to here. So O is equal to V times St. And if you're trying to do next word prediction, or some of something else.
then you take the Argmax.
So any questions. This is a pretty important slide, and, you know, actually does a fairly good job of explaining what our events do.
Any questions on this.
So let me ask you right? So I talked to you about next word prediction, and I said that you know if this is
Dimension D, then we would be
the vocabulary size times this dimension, right?
So a very tall and thin matrix.
because the vocabulary size could be, you know, tens of thousands 100,000,
and the dimension of St. Or the hidden dimension would be, you know, somewhere in the thousands.
Okay, so that's it. Now, what about if I did this problem.
if I was trying to label words with the part of speech
right? And the part of speech would be something like noun verb adjective.
So there will be, you know, maybe tens of parts of speeches.
Right?
So in this case, what would the
matrix B, what put its dimensions be
Gonna be a very long, thick
one, right? Because we have just handful of part of speech.
But then
Yes.
Lot of words like dictionary size.
Number one.
Yes.
That's
Will it be or no, because remember how the Rnn works right? The Rnn. Is not going from
the input directly to the output, right. It's actually going from the input to hidden state
and then hidden state to the output.
So this matrix V, what will its dimension be for the part of state speech type problem
Yeah, that's gonna be like dictionary size by the number of the part of speech. Right?
My right
Why would it be? Dictionary side?
Because, remember, the dictionary size is taken care over here right
Xt represents the word
And U is a matrix which is
hidden dimension by dictionary sites or vocabulary sites.
So you is doing this job of mapping
each word, or each token to the hidden dimension.
to the, you know, hidden dimensionality, dimensionality of the hidden state.
And this is the output.
So you can think of the output as like a multi-class problem.
The number of classes is the number of part of speech tags.
Right?
So, given what I've said, what would be the demand the size of me.
What is the dimension of St. Let's call that as hidden dimension, and that's d
Yes, that St is basically like the the number of part of speech. Right?
A dimension
No, no, so St. The hidden dimensionality can be something like 512 or 1,024,
right
Okay, I guess I I really.
Right.
Yep.
So there's kind of like a an indirection going in right? So basically, this is taking, like
the total number of words. The dimensionality of xt is very large, right? Total number of words.
But then this matrix U
is mapping it into, let's say, a 5, 12, or a thousand, 24 dimensional space
right? And then to get the outputs.
I have to map a hidden dimension hidden hidden state
to the output space and the output space here is.
let's say the number of part of speeches is 25, right?
So in this case it'll be a 25 by 1,024
1,012.
And for yeah.
What?
Right.
Yes. So that's the important thing. Right? So so, for example, if you have a multi class problem.
then the number of roles in this matrix V is the number of classes right? And you can think about next word prediction as a multi-class problem, except the number of words is the number of classes. So it's a very, very big, multi-class problem.
Okay, does that make sense
I have a question, is there any way to like
like reduce the dimension of the input size in like
in in a meaningful manner, because it feels like like, if you think about like the if you think about like the curse of dimensionality and stuff you're gonna need so many training samples to train a model based around this right? Because it's like
like, like the dictionary size is like, probably like in the like, the tens or hundreds of thousands. So is there any way.
is that kind of interesting?
You should write
Yeah. But actually, you would never actually compute these vectors. Xt.
right? You would just know the identification of that. Vector
right? You would know the number that corresponds to this particular word. And everything is basically in this matrix. U,
right? So, U is a matrix of size 1,024
by the number of terms in the vocabulary.
Right? So when you see the word, let's say a cat
right? And cat corresponds to you know the 2,400th word in your vocabulary. Then you'll just pick out 2,400 column of this particular matrix, and that's what you would have
But
This is actually never done by matrix multiplication. It's actually done by a lookup
But wait, are we calculating like? Isn't the are we like? Isn't this network calculating you right or like? Are we already like
Yeah, the network will optimize for you. It will learn you through back propagation and so on. But there is no going
away from the fact that you will need to compute you
for every token. Now, one of the important things is
you should not be. I mean, I know that I've said this in the lecture
that you corresponds to. You know that the column dimensionality of you is the number of words. That's not how neural networks work because they use something like tokens
and tokens don't have a 1-to-one correspondence with words.
but the number of tokens can still be, you know, tens of thousands.
or even, I think, well, diresh, do you know what the largest dimensionality in one of the current models is?
Largest number of tokens
So the number of tokens can go up till
2 56 k. But the dimensionality mostly is around 10,000
I see the dimensionality of, for example, this matrix, the number of columns in this matrix u, is that correct?
Yeah, the dimensionality can be in the order of 10 thousands.
The maximum it goes that that I have seen.
Maybe the internal
No, no, but but but but are you talking about? So what is the size of the matrix? U,
I just want to make sure we are talking the same language
Oh, the word embedding matrix. So this is going to be the vocabulary size. Cross the dimension right
The dimension across the the number of columns is the vocabulary size
Okay? So the number of call the vocabulary size, the number of columns can be up to like 2 56 K, that's the largest I've seen
Yeah. So this matrix will be 2 is going to be like,
1,000 by 2 56 k, correct?
Yeah.
Yeah. So there is no going
away from that, Michelle, I mean. So the smaller models have a slightly smaller vocabulary size, you know. Maybe you know 32,000, but you can't make it too small, otherwise you'll lose information
Right? So like for for, like, like models around like text and stuff like, you're going to need a lot of data and a lot of parameters, no matter what
And that's exactly what the the you know. That's exactly how these Llms are being learned. Right? Because and that's why there are only very few places in the world can that can actually have the compute to all, do all this competition
Right. Thank you
Let's go.
Oh, yeah, good. I'm actually glad that we kind of went through this particular example, right? Because this kind of says, you know that these matrices can be quite varied, and they can have very different roles.
Now, I just want to come back to this example. What do you think is a drawback
in using Rnms.
And kind of this approach, where yt is a label of the word T.
I guess anyone what I guess what we just mentioned
bring us down to like we are doing some like part of speech classification, but with an embedding size.
you know the data, basically. So it it.
I guess we we have some sort of a loss of information. There.
you know, it's it's gonna be not pay, not an effective classification.
Because then let's say, if we go like 1024, or 5 12.
Then you're basically trying to classify like 20, something or 30
by only have like 5, 12, or 1024 matrix. Am I right? Or
Yeah, but I but I would argue that that is really what's you know.
A lot. I mean all these things that you see in Llms
a bunch of matrices, and you are actually representing them in, you know, D model, which is 1,024 or 2,048 dimensions.
and I guess the lesson is that there's actually a lot of information that you can embed
in that size of a vector space.
So I would say that that is something that is, you know, still, currently being done. The what I was just going to say is that, for example, if you say she sells seashells on the seashore right?
When are you going to try to make a prediction about Xi?
What label does it get?
They're actually gonna do try to do it after you see the word, she
and you haven't seen the word cells
Yeah, so you basically don't have any access to the context in that
Yes, yes, for kicks. Do you want to say out the sentence loudly, or, since you're not on mute
Sorry.
I was just saying, you know why we why this sentence is there right? Because it's like a little tongue twister
I was just trying to challenge you to say this
Oh, she sells seashells on the seashore
Oh, yeah, that's pretty good. Okay.
I had a I had a question. Sorry.
Yeah.
Go ahead, I know it can be like a language dependent like in English, like
Yes.
It's like a subject, verb or object, I think, or something like that. And so does that factor into like, whenever you're planning a model
like, if you wanted
All I was.
So so this all I'm saying is that you know, this is Rnn's are not used right now. Okay, mostly. Okay. So I was just trying to point a drawback with this particular setting, which is that you know ideally, you may want to have the full sentence
right. And then you start making prediction about she about cells, about seashells, about on, about the and about Seashell
right? And then you may want to tag that right, whereas the Rnm. The way we've posted over here is that you're trying to predict the label of the word right after seeing that particular word
right. But the actual prediction task doesn't say that you cannot see the whole sentence
right like, for example, if you're, you know, doing like something in
whatever middle school or so. Right? The teacher is not going to say that, you know. I'm going to reveal one word at a time, and then you do the part of speech typing.
Okay? So all I was trying to say is that there's a mismatch over here between
between what the Rnn. The way you formulated an Rnn over here and the actual task. So in some sense, this is not a good formulation of the problem.
Okay, but for next word prediction. It makes total sense right? Because
well, I mean, you could say that you have access to the whole sentence, and you can do the prediction, right? And that is, of course, also done in language models. But next word, prediction has just become a pretty powerful way of training elements.
Okay, so how will so remember over here that I have this recurrent neural network? And what are the parameters of my network? Well, the parameters are exactly what is shown.
for example, on the left right, you have this matrix u, which is this word embedding matrix.
You have this matrix W, which is the
transition matrix, right, which basically is transitioning from
state St minus one to St, given the input, okay.
and then you have this output
V, and that can actually depend upon the structure of the output problem. So those are the parameters that you need to learn right.
And so if I want to train an Rnm
right, we need to find WU and V, which will minimize the empirical loss over the given
training data, right? And the training data occurs as sequences.
So the loss of a sequence would be, you know, over all the different time. Steps right at
time. Step S. At time. Step t
yt hat is, you know, related to V of s of T,
right. And so you know this.
you're comparing it with vt, yt, which is the actual output, and depending on this. You know, there might be a Max function over here, right? But no matter what it is, there's a loss.
and it is over all steps of the sequences
right? And remember that St. Is a function of Uw, and V. So it's not something that you can kind of directly inject
right? You cannot learn St. But it depends upon the parameters UW. And also B. And so then you say that
you know this is the loss of a sequence.
Right? So if Yt, for example, is very different of V of St. That means you need to change the parameters of your set. Quite a lot
of your parameters of the model. Quite a lot.
If Yt. Agrees with Bst, the loss will be small, and you really don't need to adjust the parameters too much. Okay.
so this is the loss on a single sequence.
Of course, you'll have a loss on the whole data set.
And so you can average the loss over all the sequences
right? That gives you an objective like similar to the kind of objective you had, you know, in your 1st homework or the second homework right? And then you can solve this by, you know, using some of the methods that I talked about in the last lecture, right like stochastic gradient descent or atom.
So that's how you would kind of optimize
to try and find Uwv, and it's through back propagation, since there's a notion of back propagation. So so, since there's a notion of time
over here many times, people will call this back propagation way on the unroll network as back propagation through time.
Okay, so just as I was saying with the with the Oh.
part of speech problem is, you know, suppose you are just doing classification right? Suppose you are, you know, given the sentence, the cat is eating
right. And what you need to predict is something about this sentence.
right? Maybe. Does this sentence involve an animal or not right or something else?
Then you actually don't need to have a yt at each timestamp.
So you can actually have an Rnm with no
V at every step. Okay, only at the final step you get the embedding or of the or the hidden state.
and then you take that and you map it to the output probability for binary classification.
So you can view s. 4. In this case
as the embedding of the particular sentence. And then you can take that sentence. And you can basically have a fully connected network added to the final embedding
where the dimension of the fully connected network will be the hidden dimension times. The let's say you know, either number of classes or in this case. If it's just binary classification. It'll just be d by one
d is the dimensionality of the hidden state.
Okay, now, before transformers came along,
actually let let me. I'll I'll make that statement a little bit later. So
what one can do to have similar things as multi-layer perceptron where you have multiple layers.
You can then take these Rnns
so horizontally you can think of them as going through time.
and then vertically, you could just have more layers
right? So this part will be the same as what we talked about right where you have a word embedding matrix over here. Right? But then this transition to this transition is just going to go from hidden state to hidden state.
So you basically have parameters over here. And this will go is like the V matrix. Okay. But now you have, like a multi-layer. Rnm.
it has extra parameters that you can try to fit.
and what we've seen in neural networks is the more the number of parameters, the more you increase the capacity. And then, as you, as you have more and more data
to train the model, you know, you can actually get learn these models to their full capacity. Okay.
so this is a multi-layer. Rnn, where you have one target.
Okay? And this is a multi layer argument Rnn, where you can have multiple targets.
So can you think of an example which has multiple targets?
This is the input.
And these are the multiple targets
Like translation.
Exactly right. You can actually have, you know, a sentence in German and a sentence in English.
right? And you can see that this part of the network, then, might be thought of as an encoder.
and this part of the network might be thought of as a decoder.
Okay, Otns are, you know.
quite intuitive. But it turns out that they're very, very hard to learn, right? It's hard to capture
long term dependencies.
When you do back propagation. You end up like taking this this transition matrix W.
And you have to kind of unroll it back many times.
So your gradients, if you look at the gradients, you know. Remember, you had this
last homework problem. Sorry last problem in the midterm and actually also in homework. 2 right where you are learning these parameters of the Mlp. Here you have learned the parameters of the Rnn.
Right? And it turns out that the
gradient scale as W to the power
L. Where L is the
the you know gap between the current were in in the network when you back propagate through time.
And what happens is that you know, W might have Eigenvalues less than one, as a result of which the gradients can actually become smaller and smaller. And that's referred to as the vanishing gradient problem.
Okay, so these are kind of 2 important drawbacks with the classical Rns
and people did come up with solutions to this right? So lstms are these long, short term memory networks. And there's something called gated recurrent unit.
And if you represent an Rnn like this.
Okay, I'm not going to go into detail
over here. So this is like a simple Rnn network. You have X over here.
Then this is going
from one hidden state to the other hidden state. Here we are using the letter H for the hidden state, and this is the nonlinearity. 10 H. Which corresponds to F, so it's a pretty simple unit
over here. It is a little bit more complicated. So these are called different gates, and this is known as the long, short term
memory network. Lsdms, okay?
And Lstms actually do work reasonably well.
Before transformers came around, this was giving state of the art performance in applications like
Machine translation. Right? I think Google had a very impressive pair in which paper, where they scaled up the performance of Lstls by having multiple layers.
having lots and lots of data to train the model. And their production system was based on Lstm's okay? And the way the Lstm's work was, they kind of output the the task is in your machine, trans, or in machine translation is to output the translated sentence, given an input sentence.
the training data is a set of input output pairs, right? Sentence in English.
And the corresponding sentence is German. And like I kind of mentioned a little bit earlier. They use this encoder decoder approach right where the encoder might take a German sentence
with an Lstm produce kind of this hidden.
final, hidden, embedding final embedding of the particular sentence. And then the decoder takes this
and generates the English sentence every time. Right? So the decoder has an output at every step, whereas the encoder does not have an output at every step, whereas the decoder does
okay? And you know. Like I said,
you can have multiple kind of layers
over here. And that's what some of the commercial systems that were available.
I would say, between 2,015 and 2,020. When you did machine translation. Let's say, online, like Google translate. And so on. That's what they were using. Okay.
let's see, actually, I'm out of time.
So which I think is a good place to stop. So today, we talked about kind of language modeling how Rnms are a good conceptual model. Lstm's give the practically realizable model that you can train on very large data sets. Rnms. Are almost impossible to train and then we'll see that, you know. One of the real
interesting things is that, hey? You know, you may not want to just have look at
the last embedding. But you can actually start paying attention
to of y 1 to each of the word, each of the previous embeddings
right? And then can actually make things
much better. That's how kind of attention mechanism was proposed. And then, of course, it led to the famous Transformers paper, which is, was your title. Attention is all you need. So we'll kind of look at that next time. Okay, so next time we'll start talking about attention, and then we'll go through the transformer architecture.
Any questions?
Okay? If not, then, you know that's the end of this lecture. Oh, I forgot to mention. I'm actually away at a workshop
or a conference. And I'm actually giving this talk from there. and I actually have to go back to it, so there will be no office hours today. So Nilesh, could you just make that announcement send it on Ed, and if you need to meet me, I'm happy to kind of meet you at another time, right? Somebody who actually wanted to chat with me today. Then I was able to chat with her before my lecture.
So no office hours today. Huh?
Okay, thank you. All. See you on Wednesday, huh? Bye.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.