okay, let's start today's lecture. today is the- you know- second lecture on classification. today we'll talk about some regression approaches to classification. [Music] classification. last time what we did was we did some probabilistic modeling where we assume that each class had a certain distribution, for example a multivariate normal distribution, and then we saw that in some cases we got a linear, classified or linear decision surface and in some other cases we got a quadratic decision surface. today let's kind of think back a little bit, back to regression and see if you know what would be regression approaches to classification and later on, as we'll see, you know what I'm going to talk about today. today ends up being used partially in current deep learning architectures. again, our problem is: you have XI, Yi. this is the training data. you have. XI belongs to Rd. you have now Yi, remember are we are doing classification. let's consider the K class classification problem. that means in instead of. you know, last time we considered k equal to 2, class one and Class 2. but today let's be a little bit more General. in the beginning, right, where we consider a general K class classification problem and of course, when k equal to two, then you will get the two class classification problem. we're going to say that R Yi is belongs to RK and this is going to be the K class classification prop. okay, and then, of course, you know, we have I equal 1 to n capital, N being the size of the training data, just as we had before. remember, just writing it out. I have my training points. let's suppose I have X, first component, second component, and there are D components. okay, and similarly we have Y, which is now K. okay, remember that this size is D, it's D dimensional and this is K dimensional. and what we will say is that Y is an indicator Vector, right, which basically means that it has just one one, okay, in the J position, okay, and that basically, suppose this is Yi, and this means that it is a way of encoding that XI belongs to class J. okay, you can think of it as the J position. you can also think of this as the jth column or row of the identi Matrix. that's how we are kind of encoding the classification problem. and then what we want to do is, just as we did before, a linear method for regression and- but let's look at a linear method for classification. okay, my linear, my coefficients are going to be W's, w, KN plus W1, X1 + W2, X2, and I have D +1 coefficients, w, d, XD. this is a linear fit and I can think of, I denote this as y given X, okay, y of function of X and generally these kinds of in the classification setting, these kinds of y's are called linear discriminants because what they are trying to do is discriminate between one from one class to the other. each, each class will have a different linear discriminator. sorry, discriminate discriminates. this could, should be discriminant. okay, I'll have WJ. this is a vector. okay, transpose X Plus WJ. okay, and this is a linear discriminant for the jth class. okay, let's. let's write it out again. suppose I take all the. I'm giving a training data set. I'll have training examples for class C1, training data points that belong to class C2, and on. let's, for the moment, in the training data set, list all the X's that belong to class one, then class two, then class three and on right. I'm going to arrange my training data in this Matrix, right, just very simp, very similar to what we had done for the linear regression problem. and now I have E1, X11, X12, x1d. I basically listed the first training data point as the row of this Matrix and I'm going to do the corresponding linear discriminant, right, and that is going to be W10 W, and then this, this part over here, just if I want to keep this notation, you know, I'll just say that this is W1 bar. okay, this is a size d and this is of size d and this is, of course, one. okay, and there's going to be and, and I'm going to arrange all the training data for C1 over here, okay, what that means is that when I take this and I multiply with the corresponding linear discriminant, okay, I'll have other linear discriminants: w20, W2, bar, and on. I'll have. we have K classes, I have K linear discriminants, k, z, WK, okay, and what I I want to happen is that the first, when I take this, times the first linear discriminant, I want to get one, but for all the other discriminants, right, I will get zeros. these are K, this is K, this is K. that means that you know X, this is in this language: W1, transpose X Plus W1, KN. I want that to give a one, but for the other discriminants, I want this to give a zero. this now becomes the corresponding Yi, which is this one over here. okay, similarly, the second data point belongs to one and my first few points belong to class C1. I have this pattern and if this belongs to C2, what I will have is 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0 and on, and then when I have class class CK over here, right, class CK, you know, there'll be some last point which is xn1, xn2, x, n, d, okay, and in between there'll be something which is one XY, x, i1, x, I2 to xit, okay, and this will be 0, 0 and one in the K place. okay, what I want is that this is approximately equal to this. again, we don't want to overfit, but we want to do, do want to fit to the training data. let me call this Matrix as X. this is the Matrix of training data, very similar or almost identical to what we did in linear regression. this now is the Matrix of coefficients and you'll see that basically there is a vector for every class which is the linear discriminant. okay, this is x *, W and this Matrix I can call as y. okay, what I I want is I want to find coefficients W that it gives me x. w is nearly equal to y. okay, now, we've seen this before and you might say: okay, I've also said in the beginning that you know I'm doing kind of a regression approach. and then you might ask: oh you know, can I? what do I mean by xw is nearly equal to I. right, one can potentially. I'm not saying this is going to work well, but one could potentially do the following: right is to think about trying to find w, do such that this is minimized, which is the square error. and if you think about, if you remember, the solution to this is X transpose x times W star- I'm skipping all the steps in between about taking the gradient and on is equal to X transpose y. not that the difference from linear regression was that in linear regression, when we looked at only one target, right, we only had one single column of y's and one single column for W's. but here what we are saying is we have K classes, we'll have K different Columns of Y and similarly we'll have one coefficient for each class. okay, and then if W, X transpose X is invertible. then I will get this solution. that could be a first regression approach that you might be, that you might use for classification. okay, and remember that x, w star will be the prediction on the training date. okay, now just think about it. I want a new x, a new X, little x times W star would be the prediction. what will it give me? it'll give me a k dimensional Vector, right, K dimensional vector. remember that W is d by K. okay, W belongs to r, d by K. when I take X transpose, which is sorry, sorry, go ahead it. D or D+ one, okay, yes, good point. I did include d, right, there's one over here. good, good point, thank you. this is is D + 1 by. okay, and remember that X is r? u remember I'm doing Rd +1 because it's of this form. okay, D features, but the first one corresponds to the bias. I think that looks one, okay, and what you would is you would this x transpose, W star. you know there are K numbers. you want it to be one if it belongs to the class. suppose this belongs to. you know, this is something which is close to something on the, the trading data, and it says that this is98, right? maybe you want these to be kind of probabilities, right? maybe this is 01, this is 02 and on that's what you would, right, and this would be the jth position. if XI belongs to CJ, okay, however, the above right, and when I say the above. I am talking about this because this is given by a Le squares problem. in the Le squares problem, really, right, when I do xw star, there is no guarantee that these values will be probabilities or on right, in fact they can be negative. right this: the above W star can lead to X. transpose W star being of the form you know, some negative number over [Music] here. leave some positive numbers here, nothing related to probabilities. okay and clearly. okay and clearly. this is not a good approximation to an indicator Vector. okay, which is kind of of this form: 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0. okay, often this is also called a one hot Vector. okay, just Le squares, just Le squares for classification as obvious drawbacks. okay, it's, it is kind of an obvious method to try, but when you look at it you realize that you know the values that you get really can't be interpreted as probability. it's really not a great method. okay, but we're just introducing it and later on you will see that when we come to deep learning then you can have different nonlinear functions that can take these real numbers and then map them onto, let's say, a probability distribution. there's something called softmax which does exactly that. it'll basically take a vector and it'll map [Music] into numbers between zero and one. that can be interpreted as probabilities and the sum of those numbers will add up to one. we'll come to that, okay, but classically, you know, the above that I've done is: is you know something to look at, but then also quickly disregard and say, okay, this is not really a very good method, but I just wanted to kind of introduce that because you know it's an obvious thing to try. any question, we've far introduced two methods, right, one through probabilistic modeling and one over here, and neither is that greater method. okay, it's not really what was used in practice even before the days of deep learning. let me now talk about one very, very popular method which, before the days of deep learning, everybody used to do this: logistic regression I'll talk about, and then also I'll talk about support Vector machine. these were the most popular methods of doing classification, logistic regression, and it's very good to understand this, even with the current, you know, deep learning methodologies. okay, let's do a little review. okay, last time, when we did probabilistic modeling, right, what had we done? we had modeled each class has a gaan with covariant Sigma, okay, and if I I'm not going to derive it and on. but the rule that we had got was something this that we were interested in, the posterior, which is P of CI, given X, suppose this is a k class problem and I was trying to distinguish it from a two class problem, from the CI and CJ. then this log of the posterior was the log of the prior probabilities, the ratio, okay, and then there was this linear term, or remember, this is the, I'm assuming the covariance is identical, the quadratic term goes away and you get Mi + MJ. you can look back at the notes from last time and this was what we've got: Mi IUS, MJ plus X, transpose Sigma, inverse, M1 minus M2. this is the linear term, right, this part you can think of, as you know, W, KN, and then this is the linear term and I can think of it as W1 trans W, transpose X. the last parenthesis is also m, i minus MJ, right, thank you, thank you. thank you for keeping me honest. and it is m IUS MJ, okay? [Music]. you see from here that you know, even though we did this probabilistic modeling, we finally got a decision, decision rule of this form. the problem with- I told you last time- is when we try to model each class as a ga with coent Sigma is that first you have to try to estimate Sigma for each class and that becomes complicated because Sigma has, you know, number of parameters that is quadratic in the dimensionality, right, while this approach, you know, allows you to get to W KN without really doing much competition, right, I mean you have to do Sigma inverse. but once you estimate Sigma, Sigma inverse, basically you get the formula. but the formula is of this form and if you remember where this came from, this came from modeling the data within each class using a probabilistic p of x given C. the LR says is that: hey, look, let me just bypass this modeling, because you know that probabilistic modeling and you know figuring out the covariance Matrix and the parameters of the distribution is a little harder. let me just say that I'm going to model the log priors, the log the, the, the log ratios of the probabilities with the linear function. what logistic regression says is suppose I have a k class problem. then I'm going to look at log of P, C1 given X, and for all these probabilities I will normalize them with, or take the ratio with respect to the last class and I'll say that this log odds is W plus, let me just call it W1, Tilla, transpose X, because I don't want to be carrying this around. and this is W1 transpose X. okay, where you know X has, you know this is xar and X has you know the bias term one in its first coordinate. and then I have log of P, C2 given x, b, c, k given X is equal to W2, transpose X, okay, and what we are going to do is we'll need to find the W's right. that's what we need to find. and similarly I can go all the way. I have K minus one, BC, K minus one given x / by CK: given X is equal to w, k minus1 transposes okay. this is now my first equation. second equation, and K minus, first. okay, and just for Simplicity- because you know I don't want to carry this around, I'm going to do a bunch of algebraic manipulations, let me write this right: p c given X as Pi, okay, and if I do that right, then I get that. you know, my first equation is log: P1 divided P2 is equal to W1 transpose X, which means that P1 given P- sorry- divided by P2 is equal to e to the power. W1 transpose X. this is first, okay. and similarly, I'll get- oh, did I do? P1 divided by P2, I should have PK. yes, perfect, I got this before you. yeah, yeah, okay, I just realized when I saw it that, yes, this should be PK. okay, because we are dealing with a general K class problem. okay, similarly, we'll have P2 given. divided PK is equal to e to ^. W 2 transpose X. and all the way till p k minus1. ided PK is e to the power, W, kus1, transpose X. okay, and remember, what we want to try to find is the, the W's, the W's that you know give us good predictions, you know they fit the training data, plus, they are good. on a new Point, okay, let's do again some U manipul algebra. what we are going to do is: we'll see that it's going to be easy to add. ask where, where the W zero l. oh, remember that I did this thing- where I, oh, yeah, yeah, I, basically, you know, put W, KN and W1 till into W1, right, right, right, the x is D+ one dimension. each W has the has is our, okay. and similarly, X belongs to R, D+ one. it's just taking the, the, the first feature or first component, component of X is one, the bias, thank you. and it accounts for the bias, exactly, okay, if I now add up all these equations 1 + 2- and the reason I'm doing it is because, if you see, on the left hand side, right over here, I have P1, P2, PK minus one, and remember, we are modeling these as probabilities- the sum of all the pis will be one. if, if I add all these together, since they have the same denominator, I will get P1 + P2 through PK minus 1, and then, of course, on the right hand side, I'll get something, but then, since the sum of the probabilities ends up, adds up to be one, I will end up getting this to be 1 minus PK divided by PK. okay, let's, let's do that. okay, because that'll help us simplify things. this implies that I'll get P1 / pk+ P2 / PK plus PK - 1 / PK is equal to e. the^ W1 transpose X, that's from here, plus e. the^ W2 transpose X, that's from here. okay. and then I'll get e to the power W, K-1 transpose X, and this will be P1 + P2 + pkus. 1 / PK is equal to summation of I = 1 to Kus, 1. e to the power W, I transpose X. okay, but by the way, what I'm teaching you is a sometimes a favorite interview questions if you interview, for you know, a machine learning position in in Industry many times. okay, if I look at the numerator, I have P1 to PK minus one. I'm adding them right and okay, I see there's something in the chat. oh, anus, you should have asked this question before. is there a specific set of Lambda values that we should be training? why don't we come to this later? n can you just remind me, because I think this is about the homework. okay, I get, this is 1 minus PK. ided PK is equal to summation of I = 1 to kus1. e to the^ Wi transpose X. okay, I can take p k. to the other side, I can write it as 1 - PK. p k * summation: I = 1 K - 1. e to the power wi transpose x one. sorry, I'm taking maybe more time than I should, but it's okay, just keep me honest. make sure that I'm not making any mistakes. okay, this means that PK is equal to 1 / by 1 plus. okay, and what is pi? let's see. oh, here it is right. Pi I ided by PK. is this right? I have Pi / PK. is e to the power W I transpose X. okay, since PK has this form. by the way, I don't want to confuse you with I and I remember this is a summation sign. I'll just put it as J. okay, this means that Pi is equal to e. w transpose x divided by 1 +. summation of J = 1, 2, K -1, e^, W, J transpose X. okay, and this is for I is equal to 1, 2 through Kus 1, and you can confirm that the sum of all the P will then be equal to one. any question, far, okay, remember, I'm just kind of really done a algebra right now to find out the form for PK and the form for p. i, P1, P2 through K minus one. okay, but remember that these are the parameters: W1, W2, W3, w, k minus one. they are all parameters, okay. and then the question that we have is: how do we find them? okay, the parameters are usually going to be found by something called maximum likely Ood estimation. okay, we are going to look at now the details. okay, the parameters in logistic regression. okay, and these are wi, and remember how big are these, the + 1 and how many? I = 1 [Music] through K. okay, and they are going to be, and usually usually fit. fit by maximum light, okay, and we'll see. this is kind of very similar to the- again, the leaste regression case. you know, we could have shown that this was if we had done probabilistic modeling. we could have shown that the least squares problem arises from Maximum likelihood. okay, that's what we are going to use over here. okay, to simplify, to derive it, let me consider the simple case of a two class problem. okay, in that case I have just y1 and Y2 and I'll use a different encoding for y's. okay, let's consider a d class problem. I have need to figure out pc1 given X. right, and remember that's what we were calling P1, but and and I have P2, I have P1 and P2, but P2 is 1 minus P1. let me just call this as P, I don't have to carry around this index. and P of C2, given X is 1 minus p. okay, because obviously, P of C1 given X Plus P of C2 given X, add up to one. okay, and do remember that you know we are modeling it. p is some. it's a function of w, okay, W are my parameters. okay, I have training data. XI, Yi is training data. okay, I assume, kind of it is, you know, as before it's kind of IID. here is the following encoding I'm going to use this time. okay, is that? let Yi equals 1 when x i belongs to C1. y i equal 0 when XI belongs to C2. okay, instead of using kind of indicator vectors- that's what I'm doing- I'm going to try to figure out one W. okay, that either gives one or zero, okay, and what I want is that when XI belongs to class C1, I want the prediction to be close to one. when XI belongs to C2, XI belongs to the training data and C2 then I want it to belong to the Yi to be close to zero. okay, I can look at kind of the data likelihood, okay, and I'm basically going to try to maximize that. okay, and I can write that as: let me just first write it is the product from I = 1 to n, p to the power Yi Time: 1 - P to the^ 1 - y i. okay, just to sort of understand what's going on. remember, you have x i Yi. if x i belongs to CI, you want your corresponding Yi equals 1. okay, what is this evaluate to? what is this evaluate to when x i belongs to CI? right, I have P of Yi. 1 - P * 1 - Yi. if Yi equal to 1, I get this equal to P ra, to the^ 1 * 1 - P ra^ 1 - 1. it's p * 1 minus p ^ 0. that's equal to P. okay, and that's what you want, right? and similarly, you'll see that when y i equal to0 Z, then this will evaluate to 1 minus P. the data likelihood is given by this is taking the product, okay, but you know we have exponentials. it's better to look at log likelihood, log likelihood, okay, because log is a monotonic function. okay, my log likelihood is: I'm basically taking log of this expression and remember this is a function of w, right, don't forget that- why this prediction is going to be, or p is going to be, a function of w, and that is what we need to find out. we are going to try to maximize the log likelihood and by doing that we are going to try to, we are going to be able to find the corresponding W. okay, if I take log of this quantity, right, I will get summation. the product turns into a summation and I have log of P Yi * 1 - P 1 - y. this is equal to log of P of Yi plus log of 1 - P, 1 - y i. okay, this is yeah, this is fine. and then this is equal to I = 1 to n. y. i log of b + 1 - y. I log of 1 - B. okay, when I was saying that this is a, you know, a favorite interview question, sometimes might some, someone might just say, hey, go to the Whiteboard and can you derive the log likelihood for logistic regession? okay, this is what you would do. and then, of course, how would you find the parameters? right? you want to try to maximize the likelihood of the data or the log likelihood? okay, remember that this is a function of w, right, because p is a function of my likelihood. log likelihood is here and I'm going to try to maximize overall W. okay, Maxim imum over W, and it is summation of I = 1 through, and I'm just copying what's written above: y. I log of p + 1 - y. I log of 1 - P. okay, and this is all within the summation sign. this is what I want to try to maximize and remember I have a w over here and this is because p is a function of w. okay, why don't we now write it out? what the function, what we had, if you go back. okay, we had Pi. okay, in this case we have just P1. p is e to ^. W transpose x divided by 1 + W transpose X. okay, because we are only considering a two class problem. okay, and we've encoded in such a way that we just want one W because it's a two class problem. P of w is e to the^. W transpose X. I. okay, 1 + e to the power. W transpose XY. then 1 minus p is 1 - e^. W transpose x. i / 1 + e^. w transpose x- i, and that's equal to 1 / 1 + e^. W transpose XY. this means that log of P. okay, if I take the logarithm of this quantity, I get W transpose XI, minus log of 1 + e. ^ W transpose X and then if I take log of 1 minus P, that becomes minus log of 1 + e^. W transpose X. any questions? okay, and then again, I want to maximize. okay, and this will turn out to be a concave function. right, I can set the gradient equal to zero and it's a con concave function. if I try to maximize it, I need to set the gradient to be equal to Zer, okay. now, if you think about the gradient of this, gradient of LW. remember, LW is here. it'll basically involve gradient of w, log of p and gradient of w log of 1 minus P. okay, this, the gradient will involve log of p and the gradient of log of 1: 1 minus P. right, there's one log of 1 minus P. let's first kind of look at that. log of p is given here and if I differentiate this with respect to W, remember, I'll get just XI over here, and then this is log. I'll get one divided by this quantity and then I have XI. okay, it'll be of this form, okay, if I have this. okay, just look at over here. and the gradient is x i minus log. I differentiate it. I get 1 + e. ^ W transpose XI okay, times. Well, I have e to the power W transpose XR, time, XR, okay, if I take the gradient of this with respect to W, okay, and I can write this as: x i * 1 - e to the^ W transpose x i ided by 1 + e transpose. and then I also need to, if I need to take the gradient of the log likelihood, I need to take the gradient of log of 1 minus P, right, and if I look at log of 1 minus P. it's given over here. it's a little simpler, right? it doesn't have this term and it has the identical term over here. okay, it basically just becomes the second term over here, right? this term, okay, becomes minus e to the power W transpose x i divided by 1 + x i x. okay, now let's put these things together. okay, remember, this is the likelyhood, log, likelihood. okay. if I now look at gradient w, l of w, that is equal to well, I have the summation I = 1 to n. I have Yi gradient, with respect to W, of log of p + 1 - Yi gradient with respect to W of log of 1us P. okay, and then let me just copy things from above: I = 1 to n y. i. I have. this is equal to this. I copy that, write it here: is x i * 1us e to the power W transpose x i ided by 1+, and then I have the remaining term, which is + 1 - Yi, and then I have gradient of log 1 minus P that I get from here and I substitute that over here. I have this, I have this and I substitute that over here. it becomes minus e to the power W transpose XI, ided by 1 + e^ W transpose X. okay, let's see if we can expand it out. y = 1 through n. okay, well, oh, I did miss something, right, I did miss this XI. okay, remember that there is this XI. I noted it down here, I forgot it over. here it is Xi. let me take the XI common, remember. XI is a vector. okay, and the rest of the quantities are scale s right. I have Yi. let me expand this out. Yi * 1 - Yi * this one + e. ^ W transpose x i. and then when I do this, I get minus of this quantity, minus of e to the power. W transpose x. i. just keep me honest. I very possible that I might make a mistake. and then I have this minus Yi and minus here. it give me plus Yi. e to the^ W transpose x. i / 1 + e^ W transpose x. no, but look at this term. this term is identical to this, except it's opposite in sign. I can cancel this out. I get that radient of the log. likelihood is somewhat simplified and it is x. i time y. i minus E to the^ W transpose XI. 1 + e^ W transpose XI. oh, and look, remember what this is. have we seen this before? e^ W transpose XI / 1 + e^ W transpose XI. seems it right here? right, it's this. oh, it's the probability of C1 given X. okay, you can see right. for example, if I have x, i, if XI belongs to the first class, class C1, then Yi is going to be one and this is p of C1 given X. this is the prediction. if I'm close to one, it'll match. if I'm far away from one right, it will not match. then I basically will change my w depending upon the gradient right and I want this to be zero right to solve to find W that maximizes L of w. and I'm not going to go through the all the details, but you can show that law L of w is a concave function. if I set this to be equal to zero, okay, that gives the maximum likelihood. solution: I. what I need to do is summation of I = 1 to n, x, i, y, IUS. e^ W transpose x. i 1 + e. ^ W transpose x i = z. but one things that you should notice is: you know, remember that XI is dimension. how much is Rd + one right plus one? yes, and W belongs to Rd +1. how many equations are these? these are d+1 equations, right, yeah, and how many unknowns do I have d+1? okay, I have [Music], basically D + one parameters and I have D + 1 equations, since x- i belongs to Rd + in linear regression. what happened, do you remember? we had also kind of XI, right, we had this. if, if you, if you really looked at the, the linear regression case, also right, with Le squares regression, you would have noticed that there was basically an XI * y minus X. transpose W. there was none of this e to the power stuff. it was basically a linear equation in W and it had this form that it was XI times the is in a littleit. this is kind of the residual or the difference from the actual value to the predicted value. you're basically essentially getting a very, very similar thing over here, except computationally it is much more different. right over here you have this exponential, or a ratio of exponentials. the problem over here is that these are non linear equations. in the least squares case, where we did not have this exponential, we could just formulate this as a system of linear equations by setting the gradient equal to Z. here it is a system of nonlinear equations system, system of linear equations- we had a close form solution given by the normal equations and you could express it in the inverse, in terms of the inverse of X, transverse X. okay, but here there is no closed form solution, and this is the most common thing that happens in machine learning, right? generally, there are no close from Solutions. L Le squares, linear regression is just a very special case where you can get a close form solution. okay, there is no close form solution. how do we go about solving it? how do we solve for w? okay, we need to solve this. okay, we now really need to use some optimization methods. one thing I also want to spef stress is that, yes, when we do Le squares, when we do linear regression, we get a close form solution. there exists a closr solution and you can use that to solve for linear regression, but even there, you could have used some iterative optimization methods to solve it. here it is a necessity. okay, we need to use optimization methods to solve for these parameters. okay, and what are these optimization methods? well, you know, classically, you have things that you might have heard about: gradient descent. we will talk about these methods more in class. okay, or we can have gradient Ascent, okay, gradient descent when we are, when we are solving a minimization problem and we have a convex function, gradient Ascent, for example. here we have a maximization problem but the function is concave, right, or you could have solved- you know the negative of this right and you would have gotten. you basically would try to be minimizing the negative of this log and then you would look for a minimum. okay, if you look at optimization books, there are more sophisticated methods, second order methods, for example, Newton's method- okay, and these are various ways to solve it right and for specific cases you can develop specific solution for listic regression. you have, you know, some. you can solve it with using an iterative Le squares solver- okay, you can also use Newton's method over here and adapt it. that it is fast. one thing that happens is that in modern machine learning problems n can be very large, okay, typical methods, gradient descent. what they will do is they will have some w, i or WJ and they will basically go along the direction of the negative of the gradient and have an update rule of the form. you know, WJ + 1 is WJ, minus some step size times the gradient of. okay, this is gradient okay, and Newton's method is, you know, WJ + 1 is WJ minus a, and then they have something called the hhan okay, of this, inverse times, this, okay, let's forget about all the these. but one common problem over here is that both of them require the gradient. and what is the gradient? to evaluate the entire gradient is quite expensive, right, if capital N is very large. the drawback with gradient descent and methods that is that they, at each step, requires order and comp competition. the drawback of these methods- and why I said these methods, I mean gradian descent [Music], Newton- is that each step requires essentially the entire training data, order and computation and you make zero progress until you do this. okay, this is not feasible when n is very large. okay, as a result, result, people use methods, stochastic gradient, the okay, and sometimes this is called SGD, and what SGD does is basically it gets an estimate of the gradient by just looking at a few points, or maybe just even one point. classical stochastic gradi me descent method is just looking at one training data. or you can start looking at a subset of the training data, what's called a mini batch. okay, you dra. basically, the computation then either just becomes order D, where D is the dimension, or B * D, where B is the bad size. okay, and typically these are the methods that are used and these are also the method that now power the deep neur, neural networ. okay, we will look in more detail at optimization methods, especially things stochastic gradient descent or other methods that you might have heard of adom and on that, in addition, use some momentum and some orders of a second order method. they they do basically curve per coordinate scaling that can be thought of as a diagonal approximation to a of a nut method. okay, now you know, classically, if you solve it using, you know, either gradient descent or stochastic gradient descent. you also, as in linear regression, you may want to add regularization. okay, you may do two Norm or one. now, okay, in practice this, some sort of regularization should be used. okay, that kind of concludes today's lecture, where you know we looked at logistic regression and we said we just going to directly find the parameters, forget about modeling the variance Matrix, but by maximizing the data likelihood I'm going to try and get the parameters. and we saw by doing some analysis that that leads to a system of nonlinear equations, d+1 nonlinear equations and d+1 unknowns, and then you can basically try to solve it using an optimization. okay, any questions? I have a question. yes, we shall go ahead. I have two questions. firstly, will gradient descent be guaranteed to find? will it be guaranteed to find the global maximum, since you said the log function was convex, right, oh, sorry, it's not. I mean the log function is monotonic, but in this case you can show that the log likelihood for logistic regression is a concave function. you can take the, you can take the second derivative and you can show that that has that property, that the hesan is negative, definite because it's concave. if we use gradient descent is there is. will it be guarantee to find the maximum? yes, sorry, just to keep the notation correct. if you have a concave function and you want to find its maximum, you use gradiant ascent and that'll, under certain conditions, get you the global maximum. you could equivalently take the negative of the log likelihood and you can then show that that function is convex and you can try to find the minimum of that and gradient descent will find you the minimum Global minimum. right, then one more question. at the beginning we assumed that all of the, we assume that the prob, the weights, represent certain terms in a multivariant gajin. when we, when we plug those weights back into the gajan, will will it still? then we find the covariant? will those two terms be equal to each other? if we find no, no, sorry, just to make it clear. all I was showing over here is that when we had modeled each class as a gaussian with coant Sigma, then we had gotten that the log odds of the probabilities were of this form: W plus W transpose X. this is when the covariances of the two classes are equal. all what that was saying is that that was just motivating us to model the log probabilities as a linear function and then logistic regression tries to find these parameters right through maximizing the data likelihood and does not try to estimate the covariance of each. in logistic regression there is no assumption that the class has a gaussian distribution. right, got it okay? when you assume that the gaussian has, if you do this modeling as a gaussian with covariant Sigma, you basically first need to estimate Sigma. once you estimate Sigma, the answer is there for w, w and W, KN. but it turns out it's not a very good method because in practice a lot of problems, you know. you don't need to model it as a gum and you're also trying to estimate deep Square parameters. it's not a good method, this one, but logistic regression is generally one of the best methods. Prett deep learning ER got it. all this does is it's just motivation. exactly, not assuming that log of the probabilities divided by each each other is a gaj, right? yeah, it's not assuming that these are CS, right? yes, by maximizing the data likelihood, we are basically doing that's what logistic regression does, and these are called log ODS. I got it, thank you, okay, great.