let's start soon. Any questions? for me, I'm hoping things are going decently in terms of, you know, getting your project partners and project in place. Anybody have any questions? Okay, remember that You know we are looking for a submission as homework 3 this Friday, where you kind of list your project, project partners and do a little bit of legwork in terms of the project, and we expect to see that by this Friday. Okay, if there are no questions, let's move on to the material today. Excuse me, I have a couple of questions, if I may. Yeah, Please Go ahead. according to the groups. is that something that we also need to define our groups in the canvas? Or you know this, or we just put their names when we turn in the proposal and only one person from the group should turn in the proposal, like if you. about the logistics, it would be nice. Okay, Good question, Nilesh, Do you have any particular thoughts about that? Or, Yeah, only one person needs to submit the proposal and just make sure that you have everyone listed in your proposal document, and that shouldn't be good. Okay, And about the projects, the Project Scopes, for example. you know our group decided to take the rag system, But the project can be big. every component, like you know, clearing the the material, chunking it, creating embeddings, Put it into database and all that- all these steps in a in a full fledged system can be a project of its own. is there some guidance on to like What is the acceptable scope that you know it can be fit into the timeframe that we have? Is it all these other things that we have going on? you know, what I would suggest is you write down- that's one of the reasons why we are requiring to submit to homework 3, you know, Submit something that you obviously think that you can do in this timeframe and the feedback will we will give you is basically about whether you know this is good or you know whether you need to modify the plan. Okay, basically, in the proposal you're not thinking about an ideal rag system or something. It's something that we think we can pull it off and then we explain what are the steps trying to take to. I mean, The proposal, remember, is about the project that you will deliver right now. You could say in the pro proposal that you know these are things that could be done but we will not be able to get to, Or maybe this is something that we hope to get to. But the proposal is is about what you can deliver by the end of the course. Okay, thanks, Maybe that that's. that's helpful. Yeah, Yeah, Okay, Any other questions? Professor, one last question, and you mentioned that there might be some chance for the extra credit. Do we have some information on that? Well, I gave the information last time, Right, were you? Were you not in class last time? or I was, I was there, but I think I missed it. But I can, I can go back and take Yeah, listen to Yeah. so We didn't. Basically, you know, you can kind of get a makeup using projects, Right. I think we said, let me remember, currently, the, the division is 25% midterm and 30% project, right, that is one way of doing things. And then what we will do is we'll take the maximum of this way of dividing the, adding the scores, or we'll make the midterm 15 and the project 40. we'll basically, for every student, We'll take the Max of this and that would be their score for the project plus midterm. Okay, Sounds Good, Thanks, Okay, Somebody else. Did somebody else say something? Or was it Minky who was talking? Okay, okay, any other questions? Oh, Okay, so, okay, Sorry. one last quick question. I was wondering If there's an estimated eta on when we can maybe receive the Gcp Credits to start working on these projects, since a lot of them involve a good amount of compute, or if we're just supposed to do them locally until then. Okay, Yeah, that I'll. I'll send out announcement today and meet me tomorrow in the office hours, if you're. if you're having trouble accessing those credits, I can help in figuring out. my understanding is kind of the credits already kind of are in place, Right, and they just need to be kind of communicated to you, Correct, Nilesh? Yes, Yeah, does that answer your question? Bishop? Yes, thank you much. Okay, okay, no worries. Okay, any further questions? Okay, Good, it seems like you know people are kind of on track with the the. you know the projects that they want to do And, having chosen the other partners, right, remember that if you're not, I mean this is kind of a little late, but feel still, feel free to kind of reach out to, to nelation Me if there's any issue. Okay, let's start further talking about, well, transformers. Okay, let's review a little bit what we did last time. Okay, we're talking about Nlp. we talked about some simple models that really were used quite a lot And to a lot of, even though you know this representation loses a lot of information. But this is how a lot of the systems were built, you know, prior to definitely 2,010, if not 2,015.. bag of words, model doing things, Tfidf, using Svms and logistic regression for classification tasks And then starting to use neural networks. One simple way is to use bag of words with the fully connected networks, but that doesn't work well, something that takes sequence into account, And that's where we introduce Rnn's last time right, And we saw, you know, the Rnms The way it it proceeds as it basically maintains a hidden state at time, T, which is, you know you can think of the position of position, Information, of this word in the sentence as T and given the word at this position, act you that goes through kind of a word embedding matrix. you get the word embedding over here and then you have the previous state, you have a transition matrix and the evolution of the States is given by this, where F is some nonlinear function, Okay, And at every step you have the choice of having an output and that is given by kind of. you basically are taking the St over here, the state, and applying the matrix P to get ot right, and then you can optimize it over the data or the sequence And then sub. you know the loss will be the average loss over all the sequences and we talked in last time's lecture- or not Last time, the time before- that you can use variants of Std atom to optimize this network and try to figure out the parameters right, Which are UW And V. okay, And then we looked in particular at, For example, text classification. You know you can look at the final state right as the output probability, as giving the output probability. You can have multi-layer Rnns. We also told you that Rnns don't really work but you can replace them with something called Lstms. They are much more stable Rnns. One of the reasons why they don't work is because they have- You know they're hard to capture- long term dependencies. There's a vanishing gradient problem. that happens And Rnns really cannot be trained quite well, But Lstms can right And a lot of them the. the systems that came up, I want to say between 2,01213,, 14, or so till 2,017 or 18 right were based on Lstms, For example for translation right translation from one language to another Language, for example from German to English, and most of the methods used, This kind of encoder, decoder architecture where the encoder would produce a final hidden state and then the decoder will use this and kind of the word that is produced, that it produces at the previous step and this final state to do translation right, and worked quite well. in terms of that It really led to a big increase in the quality of machine translation, you know, At that time. And then of course there were several- this is kind of an illustration of- and Lstm. Of course they have multiple layers. I think the some of the commercial ones use 24 layers of Lstm's. But then actually a really neat concept came about and the concept came about before the transformer paper, Right, the transformer paper is something that you, many of you have probably heard about or read and it's the title of the Transformer paper, Very catchy title, Right, which is Attention is all you need. attention was actually in some sense invented before the Transformer paper And the idea of the attention is actually, you know, quite easily explained, even in Lstms, And that's where the 1st attention work was done over here. Like, if you look at this illustration, right, If you see a particular sentence, let's say in German, then you have these hidden states: h 1, h 2, h, 3.. But you only end up using h 3, right, The final hidden state in doing the translation, doing the decoding, Okay, But you know, we know, for example, especially in translation, right, that there is, There are going to be words in the target language or the target sentence that will correspond to words in the original language Sentence. right, instead of just using the hidden state, the final hidden state, You might want to use some of these intermediate hidden states, Right? that's really what kind of attention does. Okay, let you be the current decoder latent state. Okay, the decoder is working. and let kind of v 1 through Vn. suppose there are n input words, let them be the latent states for each of the input words. Okay, then what you can do is you can take an inner product between the current decoder latent state and each of the latent states for each of the words. okay, you can think of this as paying attention to the 1st word. U transpose V 2 would be attention to the second world and on, And then U transpose Vn will be the attention to the nth word in the sequence. Okay, now you want to convert them to a probability distribution. Convert this vector to a probability distribution. Remember that this vector is a size n and then what you can do is you can take a softmax And you will get a probability Vector. this probability vector will be non-negative in each of its components and the values will sum to one. That's why it's a probability Vector. okay, and this is the attention. And then the way you kind of compute The context vector right will be: that's the given the current word vector or latent state U. the context now is: you can think of it as a linear combination of all the attention, of all the latent states of the pre, of the input words. yeah, in particular it is p 1, v One plus p 2, v 2, plus p and vn, it's a. it's not only a linear combination but it's a convex combination, which means that it is non-negative and sums up to one Okay. And that can be more compactly represented by V Times P. just think about it right. suppose that the current latent state has a very high in our product, with the 1st input word, with the latent state of the 1st word, that means that p 1.. And if you tell, do the softmax, if this is much, much larger than the other, remember that softmax is an exponential function- It'll amplify this kind of difference. this will become a very picky distribution And this would be almost one, In which case this context vector is just the almost equal to v 1.. Okay, that's kind of the idea of attention, And the way you can use it in Lstm's is Now contrast this picture, this picture where you are only using the last state to do the translation, with this picture over here where you're using basically each of the states of the encoder, Right- And this, you know, is just a representation of what I just said, Right, You basically take the inner product of the current latent state with this encoder state, Then you do a, you get a score, you do a soft packs and then you do kind of this addition where it's basically just capturing what we just said over here. Okay, And that's what you feed into the next state, the, this is the decoder hidden state it is getting. So This is the decoder hidden State, This is representing the inner product with the encoder hidden state, and and on. Okay, now and then, of course, The. the drawbacks of Lstm still do not kind of go away, right, the drawbacks is that the computation is inherently sequential And one of the big things that the transformer did was that it made the computations naturally very parallel, And that's very important Because because of that, you can then start using the hardware much more effectively, Right? So, for example, you can use your Gpus quite effectively, Right, Gpu's tribe, Well done. Okay, let's talk a little bit about the the transformer. the transformer, you know, as the name suggests, You know, Name of the paper is Attention, all you need. It was published in 2,017, and it is an architecture that relies entirely on attention. Okay, it does not use Rnn's- We end up. We haven't talked about convolutional neural networks, but doesn't use that either. Okay, And when? one of the big reasons I think that this has been successful is because it can reuse, reuse the hardware underlying hardware. Quite well, Okay, here is the, the kind of intuition, or the way the the transformer works at a very high level. suppose you have a sentence. this is again an example for machine translation. Suppose you have a sentence in French and you want to translate it into English. Okay, but what you could do is there'll be a transformer, encoder and you can have multiple layers of encoder, transformer, encoder. And what the transformer does? well, as the name suggests it, it does transform, it transforms the transforms. what will happen is that there will be 3 vectors associated with each of these words and then each of the layers will transform each of these 3 vectors into 3 new vectors And we'll keep on doing that. Okay, and it'll do it through the by using the attention mechanism And this is called self attention. it'll use the relationship between the words in the sentence. it'll look at over here, right, Because if you think about over here I'm a student, then you know there's a relationship between I and a student. that attention mechanism will kind of pick up for those pair, that pair of words. Okay, if you look now, you know over here there are, like I said, there are several layers of headquarters, several layers of decoders, what's inside each encoder and what's inside each decoder. And of course we'll go into further detail into the self retention and the feed forward network. The self attention is the main architecture used in the Transformer. We look at that again. It will be a little bit similar to what we saw When we were looking at attention from the decoder to the encoder. But this is self attention, this is attention within the words of the input sentence or within the tokens of the input sentence. there'll be a self retention layer And then there's a feed forward layer right And on the decoder side you have self attention at the bottom, read forward at the top, but in between You also need a attention between the encoder and the decoder right. So, for example, correspondence, this should be correspondence between- suppose you're doing machine translation- This is self attention, attention between the words or tokens in the input sentence, self attention. You know, if you have generated some number of words already right in the output in the target language, Then this will be self attention between those words, and then you need to have the attention that we talked about before, which is attention between the encoder and decoder. that's kind of the encoder decoder architecture. what has happened subsequently is that you know, even though today we will talk about encoder, decoder, and that's what is used, Not if that's not used, though that's not the architecture that's being used to cover, generate the current best models, It turns out that you know they just use a decoder only model, And we can, We can come to that a little bit, But from historical significance, That's how kind of the, the transformer architecture came about, and most of the initial Llms were trained using this encoder decoder architecture. let's now look at any questions far Okay, let's. let's look at the encoder architecture, just by itself. Okay, each word, we'll go have a corresponding latent vector. remember that even in Lstms, right, We have a word embedding matrix for each word. Similarly, at the bottom layer, there will be a word embedding for each token or word. Okay, And that'll be the input embedding and then it'll keep on being transformed From one vector to another. And, more precisely, each layer of the encoder will do the following: you'll receive a list of factors as input- if you're thinking about machine translation, right, The input sentence is there- and basically receive, When I say a list of vectors, it is a vector for each of the words in the input sentence, right, if the sentences of size, let's say 10, then it will receive a list of 10 vectors. Okay, Then, like we said over here, there's going to be a self retention and a feed forward. the self retention layer, will You know, you'll pass these vectors through a self retention layer. Then you will pass them through into a feed forward layer and the output of each layer of the encoder will again B a list of vectors. in the example it said, let's say there are 10 words in the sentence input sentence- then it'll be a list of 10 vectors and a transformer will transform them into, take input as a list of 10 vectors and will output a list of 10 vectors. Okay, over here you know you can. I think we carry this example a little bit later. you know, suppose you have thinking machines, right? Just 2 words in the sentence. Right, you have a list of 2 vectors, You transform them into through the self retention layer and then you pass them through a feed forward layer And then that becomes the input to encoder number 2.. Okay, now let's see how kind of the self retention works. And again, the main idea in self retention is: you know that the actual meaning of each word may be related to other words in the sentence. in particular, the whole idea is that you know if you are computing the latent vector For each word, you would compute it as a weighted combination which is computed through the attention mechanism of other related words in the sentence. In the earlier case we had seen you're looking at, you know the context of trying to compute. you know in the context of encoder, decoder, This is self attention. suppose you have the sentence right: The animal didn't cross the street because it was too tired. Note that you know these kind of try to represent the tokens that are used, and the tokens don't have a 1 to one correspondence with the words right. this represents the different tokens: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 1011,, 1213, 14.. now you have a list of 14 vectors in the 1st layer, Right. You would Basically This would pass through word embedding, layer right, And then would get translated into a vector, let's say, of dimension. you know 512, right, And then layer 5.. There would be a 512 dimensional rep vector for each of these tokens. Okay, there'll be. I think that we said there were 14 tokens over here. this will be a list of 14, 512 dimensional vectors And then the it'll get transformed, Okay, by Layer 15 from the input set to the output set and in between they will. The 1st thing that will happen will be an attention Okay, And if you look at the attention layer right, Motivation is, if you look at the sentence, the animal didn't cross the street because it was too tired. The question is, what does it refer to? Right, it I mean forgetting about, you know like it could potentially refer to, because it could refer to the street, it could refer to the, it could refer to cross and on Right, I mean, we know English, Most probably it was- It refers to animal. right now, There could be some cases where you know, especially when you see jokes and on Right, It refers to some other kind of noun. right, It could potentially refer to the street. right, The animal didn't cross the street because the street was too tired, Right, Of course that's not the meaning over here, but you can have jokes or on Where You know the meaning is. you know the standard usage of it might not be what is meant in the sentence, right, But over here you will see if you compute the attention score, right, This, The strength of this line, is supposed to, I guess, signify- you know the relationship, right, that it probably refers to the animal. It is probably also the one that is too tired, And if you, for example, go look at the word street, Then Street will not probably finally not get too much attention on tired, Okay, And of course that'll be an output of how that, how, that'll be a result of how the attention mechanism is trained. Okay, now let's look into more deeply into the self retention layers. Okay, suppose, remember that I said that there's a list of input vectors Right. over here we are assuming there are N input vectors. Okay, And then the self attention parameters are going to be 3 matrices: Wq, Q For query, WK, K For key and Wv, V for value. Okay, basically you have these matrices, which are these weights for query, key and value, And the way they will work is the following, for each word: I right, you have Xi over here. do you have the vector Xi? I'm going to compute the query vector and that is Xi times Wq. okay, Wq actually mean in general will not be square matrix. Okay, for example, over here below, you can see this thinking machines And you can see on the- I think you can see my cursor. right, this purple matrix, Wq is 1, 2, 3, 4 by 3.. It's a 4 by 3.. It's a rectangular matrix because it is transforming a 4 dimensional vector, 2 or 3 dimensional vector. the dimensionality of Xi and Qi can be different And typically it's different. Okay, the query vector is: Qi is equal to Xi times Wq. similarly, compute a key Vector: Wki is equal to Wxi times Wk, right, And you basically want to match up the key vector query vectors with the key vectors. it's giving you one level of additional interaction, right, you could have done Wq Here and Wq Here also, But this gives it more flexibility. The Wq Is different than Wk, okay, And then there's also something called the value vector, that is Xi times W big. Okay, this is how, on the bottom You know, we have this input thinking machines- 2 tokens. for simplicity, You can see Xi, x 1 and x 2.. Each one of them is a 4 dimensional vector. Wq is a 4 by 3 matrix. you can take x 1 times Wq, that gives you q 1, you know x 2 times Wq And that gives you Q 2.. That's the, Now the query vector, okay, corresponding to each of the input tokens. now you've computed 2 query vectors. Similarly, X 1, 4 dimensional vector times Wk. K being a 4 by 3 matrix, you get k 1, which is a 3 dimensional vector. and similarly for machines, you'll get X 2 times wk and that will be K 2.. Similarly with value, now, given this token, x 1, you computed 3 things from it: Query vector, A key vector And a value Vector. and now is where self attention comes in. for each word, you compute the scores to determine how much focus to place on other words. in particular, the attention score for word J to word I is qi, transpose Kj. okay, just think about it. we computed the query vector qi forward I, key vector forward J, and the attention score is qi transpose K, right, remember this example that we are kind of carrying through. right, you have x 1, and that leads to q 1, k One, v 1, depending upon the 3 matrices: Wq, Wk and Wv. Similarly, from x 2, you'll get Q 2, K 2, v 2, right, And again, x 2 times Wq Is Q 2, x 2 times Wk is K 2, x 2 times Wv is v 2.. Okay, Now, given that you're going to compute the attention score, let's compute. Look at the attention Score for: for word one to for word one to word one, that's just q 1.. Transpose k 1.. And suppose it is, let's say, 112.. Okay, And now you have to compute also the attention Score for word 2 to word one. That's going to be q 1.. Transpose K 2.. And that's what's done over here: q 1, inner product with K 2. And suppose that is 96.. Okay, now you have basically 2 scores because you have 2 tokens And what you then do is you take a soft packs, Okay, and and there's a little bit of a little bit of normalization that takes place, right, you can divide by, you know, some factor which depends upon the dimensionality Right. in this example over here, you know, 112, divided by 8 is 1496, divided by 8, K is 12.. And when you take the softmax of this vector, 14 and 12, gives you a much peakier distribution right, point 8, 8 to point 1, 2, whereas 14 and 12 were not that different right. But because it's an exponential function, then the softmax can be quite different. Okay, then what you do is, once you've computed Sis, which are the softmax values, these Sis essentially correspond to these numbers, point 8, 8 and point 1, 2, since we are only taking the example where N equals 2.. Okay, now what you do is you multiply this softmax value with the value Vector. remember, this is the value vector v 1.. what you would do is you would take, And this is the value vector v, 2.. what you would say is that the way that you transform the vector is by taking point 8, 8, multiplying it by b 1.. that's over here, Point 1, 2, multiplying it by B, 2. that's given here, And the reason this is in a much lighter shade is because point 1, 2 is much smaller than point 8, 8.. Okay, you're not taking that much component of V 2.. you have v 1 and v 2, and then you sum it up, Okay, And that gives you the one. just a quick check, Suppose I have. And similarly then you do for Z 2. z 2 will look at the attention scores again with. it'll be Q 2 times k 2, q 2 times k 1, and then you would again compute the attention, the self retention and this addition of the value vectors. quick check: Here I've shown only 2 words. right, If I have n tokens right over here, how much computation is required to compute this? attention for the ith world? you need to go through the keys of all the word tokens, all the other tokens and the token itself. Okay, you get n terms in this summation. for each word there are n total tokens. this comparison is order and square. Quite a lot of work, Okay. bad because you know it scales quadratically, but can also be good because it means that there are lots of matrix multiplications and modern hardware- Gpus- is very good at handling matrix multiplications. Okay, you know we kind of explain this over here Right In a machine. The way it would be done is: you know you, Here we kind of are looking at thinking machines are separate. Typically what you would do is you would stack these. this 1st row would correspond to thinking And the second row would correspond to machines. Right, you would do this query vector for both the tokens. If there are n tokens, there will be n roles, this query vector, okay. Similarly, you'll have not just a single key vector but you'll have a key vector corresponding to each of the tokens, Right, you? And then, similarly, for the value, it's not no longer a value vector but it's a value matrix, except that each row corresponds to a different token. and then you can, you know, do a softmax operation, which is defined over each row of qk, transpose right and multiply it by V. you can represent this competition quite efficiently, quite compactly. right, queue is equal to X times Wk, Q, Where the number of rows of queue is the same as the number of rows in X, which is the number of tokens. Okay, you compute the Q matrix, you compute the K matrix, you compute the V matrix and then you do the softmax operation right over each row. And then you, you get a matrix. softmax Uk, transport is the matrix which is what's sometimes called stochastic matrix, where each row, all the entries are non-negative and it sums to one. Okay, you end up taking a convex combination of all the value vectors And that's how the transformation is done. Okay, one thing you will notice is that the transformer is not complete Right now. right, It has, in this example, taking a 4 dimensional vector and transformed it into a 3 dimensional Vector. but what we want is that the 4 dimensional vector should be transformed into a 4 dimensional Vector and we'll see how that happens. Any questions? far, this is pretty important. The, the attention mechanism is really kind of neat and is at the heart of the transformer. Any questions? Okay, then, instead of using just one single, you know, set of W, Q, Wkw Matrices, you use can use many of them, And this is what's called multi-headed attention. Yeah, in attention head number 0. You do what I said and then you similarly have those ones. you call those matrices Q 0, K 0 and v 0.. And then, for attention head number one, you call them q 1, k one and v 1.. Okay, And the output of attention head number 0 is going to be something these 0 right over here, except you put a subscript on it. And similarly, for attention head one, which corresponds to these different matrices, you have the one and typically you can have. you'll have, let's say, 8 attention heads, in which case you will have z 0, z 1 through Z 7.. Okay, what's happened? far thinking machine, these tokens each were represented by a 4 dimensional Vector And right now they are being represented by. If I just concatenate all of them, I'll have 3 times 8.. It's a 24 dimensional packet. Okay, But remember that we want 4 dimensions. Okay, typically, what you have you would have is you gather all these outputs, v 1 through Zk, you multiply by a weight matrix to reshape, get basically 4 dimensions, And then you pass on to the fully connected layer. Okay, in particular, you concatenate all the attention heads. in this case it gives You remember there were 2 tokens right, and 3 was the dimension, output dimensionality of each Attention head, right, you get a 2 by 3 matrix for each of the 8 attention heads and if you combine them it is a 2 by 24 dimensional matrix. then you can basically multiply it by a 24 by 4 dimensional matrix. Okay, this 24, the number of roles in W O Match the number of columns over here, And this 4 is because the input dimensionality was 4, we are mapping it back to 4 dimensions. Okay, once you do this, times this you, the result is this the matrix that captures the information from all the attention heads And we basically send this forward to the feed forward network. Okay, this is the overall self attention. Part of the architecture Thinking machines is our input sentence. We embed each word, in this case as 4 dimensions. You have these 8.. If you have 8 heads, You have 8 kind of matrices, Sorry, 3 matrices. for each head there's w 0, QW 1, QW 7. Q, there are 8 query matrices, 8 key matrices, 8 value matrices. Yeah, you multiply X, which is the input tokens, With these- wait made to see- You calculate the attention. Using these Qkb matrices, you can coordinate. the result for each head is given here. You multiply it by this weight matrix and you get out the. And then, of course, in all the encoders, this is you know what I was talking really about the 1st layer when we say something about embed. embed each word, But all the encoders other than the, you know, 1st layer of the Zeroth layer, We don't need embedding, and you would basically look at the output of the encoder right below and use that as the input. this you know. if R is the output of the previous encoder, You would use that as the input over here. that's why it says split into 8 heads. We multiply X or R with these matrix. okay, Questions far. A couple of questions mate. these heads, like, structurally, are exactly the same. I suppose when we train these we try to like, initialize them differently to break the symmetry Right. This is basically what. during the back propagation, you know, these attention heads attend to different parts of the inputs. Just wait, That's what it? Yeah, Go ahead, Let me. let me finish your question. Yeah, I said these heads are attend to different part of the inputs, just organically, by the random initialization, and then go through the back propagation. Am I right or is there something? As far as I know, nothing special is done to make sure that these are, you know, somewhat different and that kind of just seems to happen by itself and I'm guessing, as you, I have hypothesized, that it is due to the different initializations. maybe that this stuff, And is there any? Nilesh, feel free to chime in, Huh. If you think otherwise, Huh, Yeah, go ahead. How much? Yeah. Then the next question was that, like, is there any insight behind the you know the, the query value, like, why don't we just have you mentioned that this extra query and key make it more flexible? No, Can the add another thing, query, key, code and value or something you know to make it even more flexible, or? Yeah, so you know, Look, the attention paper I said was published in 2,017.. when you 1st look at the architecture, You always have these questions. right, many people have tried to, for example, change the order n squared computation in the attention mechanism by something which is, you know, looks on paper to be more efficient. They've also, I think you know there have been lots and lots of modifications to the transformer architecture. far, the transformer architecture has proven to be quite resilient. Right, And, and you know, there's also this thing that is happening right now, where you have these models are being produced Using the transformer architecture. I, I don't think anybody. There's any controversy about whether you know Gpt 4 or gemini 2.5 pro, The latest models are transformer architectures or not, If they're transformer architectures. But some details might be different. Right, there may be some weight sharing going on sometimes. those details are sometimes not obvious, you know, based upon the input and output of the model. Then, of course, there are the open weight models that you know Google has, for example, Gemma, that you know Meta has in terms of llama deep seek, I believe, also is an open weight model. there, of course, you can figure out exactly what they are doing, and what they are doing in the sense of what is the, what the model looks, is that? did that? I mean, I'm all. I guess your question was like: Oh, you know, like, how can you want? like, for example, what is the? you can try to do ablations, right, which is, you can try to experiment and say, Oh look, I'll make K 0 equal to q 0, k 1 equal to q 1, and on right, and then see what the results are. If there is an evaluation set- and you know there are, you know, thousands of these evaluations done. Sometimes the tricky part is that you know, if you do evaluation at one scale, in terms of how much data you use to train, what is the dimensionality of this, the conclusion might not hold at a larger scale when the model becomes bigger. in general, like you know, there is, there is multi-headed attention. I think there is one other paper that has something called multi query attention and that's also very widely used in the methods. I think, for example, llama paper says that they use multi query attention and sometimes the reason for doing it is, you know, expressivity. Sometimes the reason for doing this is better utilization of hardware and things, memory cache and on. I see, Thank you, Yeah, I mean, you know, like I think I was at a conference which was like, Oh, you know, 5 years from now will the attention architecture remain the same or will it change? And I mean, I think honestly nobody knows. But you know, looking back at hindsight it's proved pretty resilient over the last 8 years. And how they handle the different sequence length in that Lstm based translation, For example, you know, we, we could see how a you know Forward, for example, German thing can. So But how typically they have a beginning of sentence token and an end of sentence token, right, And then you can basically pack more things into the sequence length. I see, you could, You could you know, like, okay, And then of course, the latest decoder models are the latest models are essentially decoder only and what they are doing is basically doing predicting the next word, Right, Right, there are these causal kind of models. They are predicting the next words in the sequence. they do it for word 2, word 3 or token 2, token 3, token 4 in the sentence. you basically give a long sentence and then you, then you, you know, pass them through the transformer architecture. You do Forward pass, you do backward pass, you change the weights, then you go on to the next sequence and on, And then, of course, there are many different tricks that are used in terms of trying to, you know, optimize the both the hardware. And you know there are some things maybe about you know what kind of data do you do you send us inputs? Does it matter what sequence it is in? Does it matter whether it is repeated or not? there are lots of different things people have played around with And you know, some people have different recipes for doing it. yeah, I see, Thank you, Okay, let's see. that's about the self attention, right, One of the things that we haven't talked about is we sort of said something about bag of words, model. Then, when we said something about Mlps, we said, Well, you know, you can use a deep network, But if you use Mlp, that's still kind of still using bag of words, because you know how are you capturing the sequence information? And far, we haven't seen. We've said: this is a list of vectors. Right, if I permuted these vectors, far, you know, there's not that much difference, Right, typically what happens is that you do a positional encoding. not only do you have an embedding of each word, but you have an embedding of the position, what we've talked about till now. it ignores the sequential information. What, then, you can do is you can add positional encoding vector each Xi, xi being the embedding of the input word I- okay, and the position encoding depends only upon the position. I- okay, typically you'll, And then you get, you know, the actual x: 1, the embedding you have one is the embedding without the position signal and then the embedding with the time or position signal is: basically, you add this position embedding vector for each position. Okay, this will be like: the word is the 1st word in the sentence, this is the embedding for the second word in the sentence and this is the embedding for the 3rd word in the sentence. The positional encoding is really is an important part of the transform, And then the way they do it is. you can have different ways of doing the position encoding or even learning the position encoding. Sometimes you can have parameter free versions where you have a sine or a cosine function with different wavelengths- That's what was used in the original transformer paper- Or you can try to learn a position latent vector for each position. You know, the characteristics are that this would be smooth versus non smooth versus sine and cosine, which will vary smoothly with position. But this is kind of parameter free, where this is kind of data driven and learnable. Okay, And then there are other more sophisticated, sophisticated methods that people can use to do the position. Okay, questions, questions far on the transformer architecture. Sorry about the positional encoding. is that like If, for example, our embedding is the dimension of 5, 12, also have the 5, 12. for each position? Right? So yeah, 1st position we have a 5, 12 dimension Vector and then, for position, we have another 5, 12 position Vector and then these the okay, Thank you, Yeah. Yeah, that's how it is done right now. Oh, and then you know, you probably heard about, like you know, the sequence lengths getting bigger and bigger, or context lengths getting bigger and bigger, And there are other tricks people use to handle larger. Are you able to see the slides? Oh, sorry, did you want me to share the slides again, or Just yeah? yeah, I think there's something I meant. Yeah, I think it'll help, I think So. I just wasn't sure if you meant to be screen share or not. I just wasn't making sure. Oh, no, no, I stopped screen sharing because I was going to move on to the next. you know we have about 1015 min. I was going to share a different set of slides. Okay, okay, my bad, my bad, Okay, any kind of questions far, or? I have a quick question this might be. I didn't quite understand why. Why is there a distinction made between a key query and value matrices when, like, aren't they all receiving the same input for self attention? like? why, like, what is the distinction between them? It feels they're all kind of receiving the same input and like they're just 3 different matrices, right, Sorry, What? What do you mean by that? remember that the, the, you have these input vectors and they get transformed. Each of them gets transformed into query and key components, Key vectors. And then, when you compute attention, you look@theinner product between the query, a vector of one vector of one token, with the key vector of the other token. Oh, okay, It's like it's not. you're looking at the self retention, as I mean, somebody could have designed it and you know, maybe they did try it When they were thinking of the transformer paper. they could have said: Okay, I'll take each token or each Vector, I will transform it into a query vector and then I'll take an inner product between all the query vectors. that could potentially have been the definition of self attention, But I'm guessing that people found that this is much more expressive because you have more parameters and works better. wait, Can you give when? would an example be of when the key and the query and the values would be different, completely different? like when would when would a good example of that, a real world use case, Would that be? Oh, I mean, I'm guessing that, for example- again, Feel free to chime in- like, if you look at, maybe we can do that right as part of. well, I don't want to give you more work, but you can look at, for example, the weight in, let's say, the llama or Gemma, right, And you can look at the different Wq Vectors and Wk Vectors and remember that these have, You know, these are the- the weights after the pre training. Got any wait? I mean, oh, I mean the input themselves. you said self attention is more general than self attention, Right, one, would a good use case of the input to a key and the input to a query and the input to a value be different? not not the weights Or the input, you mean the excise? Yeah, Okay, okay, you're saying that. okay, you're saying that for self attention, Xi is the same, right, But for example, when you're doing cross attention in the video, for example, doing encoder, decoder, cross attention, Then they will be different, right, Because you are looking. For example, if you're looking at machine translation, right, You might be looking at the word in the target language, in English, and looking at the cross attention, which is the attention, with the corresponding words in English, French on one side and English on the other side. Alright, that makes sense. alright, Thank you. in that case, it's not just It's so, it's not self attention. Does that? Does that make sense? Yeah, yeah, that makes sense, Thank you, Okay. Yeah, just to add on top of that, usually for the key and value, like, you tend to have the same input, Xi, but for the query, as Professor said, like when, when you want to contextualize your thing, that you are looking at the, the query that you want to process, If that is different, then the input to that can be different. So, for example, here in the case of translation, or if you are generating French tokens, you want the French tokens to look at the English tokens. there you'll have, I think what you're right, what I think what niresh is saying, that you know, in this case this particular X could be different than this particular X when you would do cross tension. this would be x 1,, let's say, in the target language, and this would be x 2,, which is in the source Language. Alright, Right, Okay, And typically this will be the same. The x in this will not be different. Alright, I see, I got it, Okay, Thank you, Okay, let's see. okay, And you know, like this is like the main application I think they were trying in the transformer paper was again neural machine translation, right, they had, you know, 2 sizes of transformer models: one which was base model, which was smaller, transformer big, which was bigger, And then they saw that this gave them much better results than you know previous architecture, some of which were based on convolution networks, some which were based upon, you know, other kinds of attention, but not have the transformer architectures. Okay, And these are, you know, some blue scores and of course, you know these numbers are, you know, 2,017, kind of much older. and the way the transformer architecture was proposed was an encoder, decoder architecture, And now people use just the decoder architecture. Okay, Any other questions? Okay, I think you know, transformer architecture is really the one that you know is really used a lot just for historical purposes. you know, as things evolved in Nlp, there's just a few things that you might want to know about, but in some sense they are, you know, ancient. in some sense, Right now I'll just We'll put them in the slides and you can go through it and I can go through it really quickly. But you know, there are various ways of kind of embedding words And the earlier people would you know, for example, the vector space model, people would just use a static representation. But some of the things that happened, you know, around 2012, and on, are that you started looking at the context of the word. right, you would look at a particular word, You look at the words before it, You look at the words after it and you would quadify this word using this word. context pairs in particular. for example, if you have a sentence like you know, the quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog, Then you might use training samples which are, you know, centered on that particular word under consideration, and then the context. So, for example, here, Brown brown, the brown, quick brown fox, brown jumps, and on Right, And this led to a couple of things. for one of the ways of embedding vectors- again, I'm not going to go into details over here, but there was you know kind of a seminal paper called word 2 vec, which basically was able to take word and get It's called you know, an embedding. again, I said this has been surpassed. Now the embedding which are provided by, you know, Google and open AI and on are much better and don't use word to vec. but one of the interesting things is that you know you can kind of use these earlier techniques were used to produce embeddings of worms. And then one of the interesting things that people found out is that you know there was some really interesting relationships, Right. So, for example, if you did- once you've got these vectors, you saw it- They found that King minus Queen was equal to man minus woman. that kind of captures- male, female. if you looked at different word verb tenses, then swam minus swimming was the same as walked minus walking, Right, the past tense versus kind of the present tense. And then even with things like you know, Russia minus Moscow will be equal to Japan minus Tokyo, even though these representations can be somewhat, can sometimes look a little arbitrary, There was a lot of semantic information that was being preserved and a lot of it was because, you know, the way of producing these lower dimensional embeddings was really scaled up right. they ended up using tons and tons of data, which had not been done before, and they were able to harness the systems and the powers of the Gpu and the Tpu to give You know these meaningful results. this was, you know, this is not used right now, but you know, word to work in 2,013.. Like, as an example of you know, the early days, it has important kind of historical context. Okay, we'll include that in the slides that we upload. I think that's it for today's lecture. any questions? Okay, if there are no questions, just again a reminder that you need to submit your homework. hopefully all of you have looked at your projects and found project partners. we look forward to reading those and then giving you feedback And hopefully you can have good projects. And I think meanwhile, I guess, Nilesh, you will upload the, or send them the, Cloud Information, Cloud credit information right on Google. Yeah, Okay, Thank you. Okay, Bye everyone. Hormoz Shahrzad. Hormoz Shahrzad, Thank you, Bye.