I'm going to repeat some material from last time just to remind you, right, we were talking about today's lecture is? you know? we'll basically talk about svms and Duality. we'll see that. you know, we looked at the Primal svm problem last time and today we will derive the Dual spvm problem and to solve for the coefficients, then in many cases people have solved the Dual SPM problem rather than the Primal. okay, what do I mean by all this? right, let me recap something that we talked about in the last 10 or 15 minutes of class last time. let's consider a general constraint optimization problem. okay, the general problem we'll have is you want to minimize a function, FNX- okay, and then we have some inequality constraints on F, right, fi, X is less than equal to z, i = 1 to to M, okay, and then certain number of equality constraints- okay, and we just always can of assume that it is: fi is less than F, IX is less than equal to zero, right, if you had something which was greater than equal to zero, then you can just kind of, you know, take negative of that and get a less than equal to inequality. okay, this we'll denote. I think I might use it later. problem number one: and last time we saw that we named it as a, the Primal problem, okay, because we started seeing dual last time again. you know, here x belongs to RN, okay, which means that my fi is a function from RN to R, including F0 right, and is hi R, N to R. we said that we can form something called the lrin, which is a function L. that will basically take the Primal variable. it will go from RN but add some other variables which will be dual variables or they will basically correspond to lran multipliers. that will essentially be the Dual variables. we will have dual variables for, or lran multipliers for, every inequality constraint and also for every equality constraint. there are M- inequality constraints, RM, P, equality constraints, RP, and this function takes Maps r n, cross, RM, cross RP. to the reals. in particular, we have these lrange multipliers, Lambda and new, and my lrange in this function is FX plus summation of I = 1 to M. Lambda i, f i, x plus summation I = 1 through P, new I, hi i x, okay, and Lambda I is lrange multipliers for I- inequality constraint, okay, and mui is lran multiplier for the aat equality constraint. that means that Lambda I corresponds to hi and new I corresponds to sorry, Lambda I corresponds to fi and new I corresponds to hi. right, and I said last time, the Lambda and new are also called dual variables. and then again, I'm repeating stuff from last time. we looked at this lrange dual function which is basically just a function of the Dual variables. right, it's a function only of Lambda and new. okay, and the way we do it is: we take, take the lrin and we take the infimum over X. okay, remember the Lan I wrote above? is this function- I'm just copying it below FX- The summation of I = 1 through M, Lambda, i, f, IX Plus y = 1 through P, hix, and I'm taking the infimum over all X and we will say that Lambda and new are dual feasible. okay, just to kind of, the language that we are using is something called feasibility, right, what would be a primal feasible solution? a primal feasible solution is basically: feasibility means that it satisfies the constraints, right? Primal feasibility will just mean X will be Primal feasible if f iix is less than equal to zero for IAL 1 through M and HX is equal to zero from IAL 1 to P. but that X is not necessarily the, the minimizer of this problem. okay, that's the language we are using. X is Primal feasible if these two sets of well, M inequalities and P equalities are obeyed, right. and dual feasibility is if Lambda is greater than equal to zero and- and it's just saying that you know, this has a finite solution. it's not that this infimum goes to minus infinity. okay, and how many inequality constraints are these? remember, this is the vector, and there are m, m, which is corresponds to fi. you're right that, basically, there are M inequality constraints. okay, and then last time we said: well, there are two facts that we should know about, which is that g of Lambda mu is less than equal to P star for any dual feasible Lambda mu, which means that if you have any dual feasible Lambda mu- and I plug it in to this- then it'll be a lowerbound for the Primal solution. P star, okay. P star is Primal optimal. okay, that is optimal value of one. okay, in particular, P star is equal to F, not xar, where xar is the solution to this problem. xar will be Primal feasible, it'll obey all these constraints and, in addition, it'll give the minimum value. okay, that kind of already gives us a hint that, if you want to find P star, one alternate way could be to just look at the dual function, lr's dual function, and try to maximize it, right, because it'll approach P star, okay. and Fact Two says: okay, basically, that there are certain kinds of problems where if you maximize it, you will get the optimal solution of the Primal and the D. if there exists a dual feasible Lambda Star, new star, okay, and remember, this just means that Lambda star is greater than equal to zero, okay, and a primal feasible xar, such that g Lambda Star, new star equals P star, is equal to F xar. this is only saying that you know what are the conditions in which strong Duality holds, right, sorry, it's just saying what strong Duality is. okay, it's just saying that if I have my variables- Primal variable, xar, dual variable, Lambda Star, new star- such that all of them are feasible, xar being Primal feasible, Lambda Star, new star being dual feasible- right, then strong do. and that this value G Lambda Star, new store- is not only at this Lambda and new, not only an inequality but an equality. okay, then strong Duality is set to hold. okay, far. I've just reviewed material from last time. I did exactly the same thing last time. now let's start with the new material. Okay, we will now look at the Dual problem, okay, which is I take my function, the dual function, okay, and I'm going to maximize this over Lambda and new, and the feasible region is where Lambda is greater than equal to zero. okay, remember, I could have written it: as you know, Lambda I is greater than equal to zero. I, 1, 2 through M. okay, and this is just kind of encapsulating it, that I'm just saying that the vector of Lambda is is greater than equal to Z. okay, now let's look at what the consequence of strong Duality is. okay, and remember- I don't want you to lose the picture- we are finally going back to svms and what we are going to do is going to allow us to interpret what the svm solution looks and give a faster way, potentially, of solving the support Vector machine. okay, suppose strong Duality holds for Lambda Star, new star and xtar. okay, let's see what the consequence of that is, okay. okay, then let me write F, not xar. okay, strong Duality means that f? xar is G of Lambda Star, new star. right, that's exactly what strong Duality is. we are assuming that it holds. okay, and from before, our definition of g of Lambda new star is that this is in overx of l x, Lambda Star, new star. okay, now we can substitute what L is. it is f, x. the summation of I equals 1 to M, but remember, I'm doing it at Lambda star. it's Lambda I star, fi, X+ new I star, hi, F. okay, since this is the infimum, right, then it must hold that this is less than equal to the value at X, some any other value at X, in particular xar, correct, this is the infimum over X. this value, the infimum, will be less than equal to something else. right, and I can at any other X and I can substitute xar over here. now I have- I'm substituting xar in the above. okay, now we can kind of look at some quantities. right, this is dual feasible, right? this means that this is greater than equal to zero. f? ixar is less, Les than equal to Z. this means that this quantity is less than zero. similarly, I have- well, I don't have- any constraint on new I, and you're seeing the reasons why, right, because hix, remember, xar is Primal feasible. this is equal to zero and, as a result, this whole quantity is equal to zero. what I have over here is I have FN, xar and then something which lowers the value, something which is negative. what that means is that this whole quantity is less than equal to F, not X. but what have I done? I have basically shown that F- not xar, is through a sequence of inequalities- is less than equal to FX. what does that mean? that means that this is not just an inequal, less than equal to, but it's an equal to. this is an equality. and must this be an equality? okay, the above two inequalities must hold with equality. okay. what does that imply? the first inequality says that xar must be a minimizer of this. remember, that is a little bit subtle, right? it's not? remember? xar was the solution to this constraint problem. okay, from that we D, you know, we went through this step of looking at the lran and lrange dual function, right, and it's basically saying that the lren- if I am at dual feasible, feasible- then this must be the minimizer. okay, xtar must be the minimizer of LX, Lambda star and new star. and then the second part is that I must have an inqu, an equality over here. but if you look at this, this is equal to zero. that's fine. this, it says- and this is now really interesting- this is saying that this should hold with equality, not just an inequality. cannot be an inequality, strict inequality, right. this means- and this will have very interesting implications for U, the svm part. this says that summation of I equal 1 through M, Lambda I star, fi, xar, equal to zero, right, and in particular, each of the Quant, because they all have the same sign: less than equal to zero. this means that Lambda I star, time, F ofx, star, must be equal to zero for all. I = 1 through M for each of the inequalities. this must be true, each of the inequalities, fi. remember that fi, xar must be less than equal to zero. okay, what does this imply? and remember that primal phib, ility is that this is greater than equal to Z. this implies: remember that Lambda star, Lambda I star is greater than equal to zero. what if it is strictly greater than zero? this says that if Lambda I star is strictly greater than zero, then what happens? and all the FY has to be zero. then the corresponding fi, right. what do you mean by all you know? fi for the for the X star, yes, fi for the xar. that's just remember, that's just the I, linear inequality right, right? if the, if the corresponding dual variable is non zero, then this inequality must be met with equality. similarly, there are two terms over here, right, we've looked at the first one. suppose this one is strictly less than zero, then what must happen? the corresponding Lambda must be equal to zero. okay, it basically says that you know, if this inequality has some slack, right, that means I end up having xar, some such that fi xar is strictly less than zero. there's some slack in this inequality. the corresponding lran multiplier is exactly equal to zero. okay, again, right now we are looking at things in general, but it'll have implications when we start talking about going back to the svms and looking at the Dual svm drop. okay, when you're talking about the corresponding, it means that it could be that some of the Lambda I are zero and some of some the other fi of stars are zero, right, yeah, yeah, exactly, that's exactly what is going to happen, right? it'll be not always true that all the things are going to be met with equality, right, and we'll see that. you see that when we look at the SPM picture, Okay. okay, I'm kind of going to conclude and you know, just tell you a little bit about more, about optimization, or constraint optimization. there is this very famous kkt conditions. okay, this is called Kush Kun tuer or short for kkt conditions: okay, and they provide a certificate of optimality when problem one is convex. okay, what do I mean by problem one is convex? well, you know, I won't get too much into details, but it's you know, f is convex, and these are all convex sets. Okay, which is true for the problem that we are interested in, which is the SPM. okay, the kkd conditions are as follows: for X star and the Primal variable and the Dual variables, okay, one is okay. what should happen if somebody presents xstar, Lambda Star, new star, okay, and somebody says: well, you know, these are candidates for Optimal Solutions, xar, Primal, optimal. Lambda Star, new star, to be dual optim. well, the first thing is that they should satisfy feasibility. right, they should be. xar should be Primal feasible- okay, and Lambda star should be dual Fe. and Primal feasibility, remember, is: fi of xar is less than equal to zero. I = 1, 2 through m, h i xar is equal to zero. I = 1, 2, p. and then dual feasibility is that Lambda I star is greater than equal to0. I = 1, 2 through X, okay, and then this thing that we saw above this quantity, this condition is called complimentary slightness, which is that Lambda i startimes f of I. xar equal z, i = 1, 2. okay, this is the kkt condition for xar Lambda Star, new star. if you give me xar, Lambda Star, new star, this, then this is a certificate that xar is Primal optimal. Lambda star M Star R, dual optimal. and we've seen that this condition has two consequences that we saw above. okay, I'm trying to. xar is a minimizer of L. I'll just write this as: xar equals AR men, l x. Lambda Star, new star. okay, and what that kind of implies is right. the problem is convex, that the gradient of L should be zero f, not xar plus, and we'll be using using this. okay, these are the kkt conditions. kkt condition s: xar, Lambda star, and let's see if I can draw a box. okay, you know this is very general and you know we don't need to understand it in its full generality. let's come back to the spvm problem. okay, let's come back to the svm problem. it's quite neat the the by looking at these conditions, how it'll lead us to understand what is happening in the svm problem. okay, the svm problem, remember, is minimize over W and W, KN, half of w², such that Yi. that means, you know, all the points are classified correctly and with a margin. okay, W transpose x, i + W is greater than equal to one for each of the points in the painting dat. okay, I can take this and write it in the form of f? ofi. right, I can take you know, this is greater than equal to one. I want to make it, let. let me put it in standard form. right, and the standard form was that I have fi, * of w to be less than equal to zero. I'm going to write it as one - y i *. W transpose x, i + W is less than equal to Z. okay, and then this becomes my f of w, f of I of w. okay, any questions about putting this in standard form? okay, when I say I'm putting this in standard form, I'm just writing it. this: our variable that we are optimizing is W, right, I have half of w² as F and I have fi, and currently we don't have any equality constraints. okay, let's now churn the Machinery that we've learned right. let's form the lrin. the lren is a function of the Primal variables, and then we have inequality constraints and let me call the corresponding lrange multipliers, or dual variables as Alpha. that's very much the standard way that people have Lo looked at it. okay, that is. anybody wants to help me? or feel free to tell me what to write Plus for each of the inequality constraints. there are n of them. I have Alpha, I time, fi, W, right, which is 1 minus y i, w. transpose x i + W, correct, this is my lent, right and remember from above, I can basically take the gradient with respect to the Primal variable and set it to zero. Okay, let's do that. let me take the gradient with respect to W of L gradiant with respect to W, or, made the same mistake twice- l, w, w, Alpha, and remember that we have two variable to W and W, KN. okay, what is the gradient of this with respect to W? well, it is just W. that's the gradient of half of two Norm of w² plus. if I now look at this, I have have W over here. I'll have plus summation of I = 1 to n. I have Alpha i, y, y, i, w, transpose. well, remember, W is what I'm taking the gradient with respect, yeah, y, i and x i. it's x, i and there's a minus sign, right, yes, this minus sign, okay, and that I will set to zero. look at the amazing thing that comes out right, it's saying that W is at the optimal. it's going to be a linear combination of the x, i and, if you remember, we are using the encoding of Yi is + one for class one, y i = minus one of Class 2 and my dual variables, remember, are going to be greater than equal to zero. right, it's basically saying that you basically have some positive combination of XIs minus a positive combination of XIs, positive combination of XIs from class one minus a positive combination of XIs from class 2. okay, that's what a optimal W will look at, will look, and then, if I now take the gradient with respect to W KN, well, look, W KN is not here, W KN is only here. it's basically going to be summation: Alpha I, Yi, W, and the gradient will be summation of what's it going to be: I = 1 through n, minus Alpha i, y, i, w. sorry, that's it. yeah, yeah, that's it. equal to zero. that means that you have a little balancing constraint, which means that the alpha I is the summation of the alpha I is from one class, one are equal to the summation of alpha I from the other class, because Yi is + one, okay, 4 class one and minus one for class two. okay, let's look at the Dual. now let's try to derive the Dual right, the dual function. remember, we only have one set of dual variables. now, right, because we don't have any, any equality constraints. I have the G of alpha is my dual function and that is the minimizer: ww, l, w, w, Alpha. okay, and we saw that the minimizer will have this property. okay, I'll have G of alpha. okay, is going to be equal to half of. remember, this is my L. I found that the minimizer is this: I'm going to substitute this W over here and this W over here, and we'll also see that we'll need this, we, we we'll be able to use this condition. okay, this means that my w is of the form I = 1 through n, Alpha i, y, i, x, i. okay, this is half w², correct. and now I have this- let me write this as well, I can. I have a term which is just Alpha I, from here Alpha I * 1, and then I have minus summation of alha i, y, i, XI, transpose time W, right, and W is Alpha i, y, i, x, i. any questions? I just wrote w transpose XI as XI transpose W. it's the same thing, right? and then I just substituted this over here, okay, and I think there's one more term left, which is Alpha I, time, W, right? Alpha i, y, i, okay, plus summation of Al I, Alpha i, y, i and w. maybe we can look at this term, right, what is this value? zero, zero, because W, KN is some one particular value doesn't depend upon I. okay, this term is zero, okay, and that follows from here. okay, now look at the rest part. let's let me write G of alpha. let me first take this term: summation of I = 1 to n, Alpha, I. and now, if you look at this, this is half of this square and if you closely look at this, I made a little I should have. I don't want to use the same I over here and the same I over here. I should have used J over here, okay. basically, I have all the possible pairs: Alpha I, Alpha j, y, i, YJ, X. I transpose XJ and if you expand this out, that's exactly how what you would get. but they don't exactly cancel because there's a half a half over here and one over here. as a result, these two terms combined to give you Min - 12. summation of I = 1 to n. summation of J = 1 through n. Alpha I, Alpha J, Alpha j, y, i, y, j, x. I transpose XJ. okay, as a result, here is the SPM dual. we've eliminated W and W, KN and we now have an optimization problem only in the alphas and we want to try and maximize the Dual. I maximize over Alpha summation of alpha I: I = 1 to n minus half. I'm just copying what I have above: I = 1 through n, j = 1 through n, Alpha I, Alpha j, y, i, y, j, x. I transpose XJ such that, remember, I have dual feasibility: Alpha I is greater than equal z, i = 1 to to n and it turns out that in this case I do have one equality constraint, which comes from here, okay, which comes from here- which is that summation of alpha i, y, i = z. this is my dual problem. M. this might be a good time to stop to ask for questions. remember, what we've shown is- maybe I'll try to fit this on the same slide for a minute, or okay, this was my Primal problem and what I've shown, using the theory of Duality, is that this is equivalent to solving this, but note that here the Primal variables are W and W and here there are these more abstract things which are alphas. okay, but I can optimize, solve for this and it turns out that this problem is a little bit simpler to solve. it has these inequality constraints which are kind of non- negative constraints- just one equality constraint, whereas these inequality constraints can be a little hairy. most solvers forvm problems use this. questions sorry, what happened in the first term in the original G of alpha? which term? sorry? one half? yeah, that one. yeah, sorry. what I showed is, if you expand this out, right, let me just. okay, I'm just going to use kind of little scratch work, right, Alpha I. sorry, what do I have? yeah, I have this right. alha, I. okay, remember that. this is the torm, right, I have. this is Alpha i, y, i, x. i transpose time summation of J = 1, n Al, alpha, y, x. is that clear? that's just saying that Norm of y s, Norm of z s is equal to Z, transpose Z. that's all I've done. is that clear? yeah, that makes sense. yeah, if that's clear, then the next step should not be too difficult. it's basically just: I equal 1 through n, Alpha I. Alpha j, y, i, y, j, x. I transpose XJ, correct? if I expand this out. yeah, half of this will will be half of this, which is half of this, and what has happened is that there's a half over here, there's a minus one over here. that combines to give minus half. I see, okay, yeah, Mak, yeah, okay, great, thanks for the question. do you want me to leave this on my Note or? oh yeah, I'll just leave this. I won't erase it, I'll just say: note that. okay, any more questions on this? I don't understand how we arrive at Alpha. how we arrive at Alpha. okay, just think about Alphas as lrange multiplier. for each of these, right, there are end inequality constraints. the alphas are basically the lambdas before they correspond to the inequality constraints. I'm basically doing Alpha I, fi, W and this is the FI. I form the. these are the Lan multipliers. I get a dual and then I do this: oh, we just take the the, we just take the derivative in sare Alpha, right, remember, right, right. I basically- you know, I did go over right- that in general, we have this okay and in the end, what I showed is that when you have this must be true, okay, which means that when I take my lran, then I can basically set this equal to zero with respect to the Primal variable, the gradient with respect to X. that's what I did over here, that I took the gradient with respect to W and I set it to zero and then I get W in this form. this way, I'm eliminating the W and W KN from the Dual, from the dual function, which is what I need to do, and that's how I get a function just in terms of the alphas. all right, that makes sense. thank you, okay, I mean it's kind of amazing, right? I mean, if you just look at these problems, you know, and if you ask you know a random person on the street, you say, well, is this problem the same as this problem? right, yes, Say No, Yes, you know, what I was wondering is that? what was the initial motivation? you know, someone get into this and then somehow get out the other side of the equation and then you know, realize this, or you know, yeah, I mean you have to realize that. you know, if you think about deep learning and on right, it's been really the the wave in the last, I want to say 10 years. right, there was a a time when svms, they started finding that they gave very high quality Solutions. right, there was a period of about 15 years in which people did a lot of work on svms, and I would say that there were thousands of papers published in this area. and one of the first things that they realized is that, you know, you wanted to solve this problem. right, for not this problem, but but, but this problem for very large data sets, where n is very large. and they realize that solving this was a little bit hard, much harder, whereas solving this was much easier. okay, and you have to realize that you know there's a whole branch of Applied Mathematics on optimization Theory. it's very welldeveloped and this was kind of classical optimization Theory applied to this machine learning problem. but there was a time that people was trying to solve this and then it developed that, oh, you know, yeah, the bran, and that the D all problem, and this is problem solve, right, yeah, look, I mean, if you showed this problem to somebody who's an expert in optimization, they would do this right away. right, it's not, it was pulled out of a hat or something, right. but if, if one knows optimization Theory, then one would go from here to what I just should, it's not that surprising that people were able to find this. all I'm saying is that, you know, if you just look on the surface and look at the problem- and I just said random person on the street, right, not an expert in optimization, right, they would basically say that these problems, you know, they don't really look anything, it okay, thank you. how do you? how do you derive the weights of w from alpha, cuz all we know is that g of alpha equals F of w Star, right, remember this part in the middle right, w. given the alphas, you can find out W. I see, I see, okay, right, and it's Alpha star, Alpha. you know, the solution of the optimal, suppose, that is, suppose the solution of here is Alpha star, then it'll be Alpha, I star, y, i, XI, and that's a beauty, right, it gives you an interpretation that the solution is, you know, basically a linear combination of the XIs, and it'll turn out that these XIs are special. we look at complimentary slackness in a little bit and see what Alpha I are greater than equal. by solving the Dual problem, you will get the separating hyperplane explicit. is it always the case that when solving, when, that when solving for, when setting the, the grent equal to zero, you'll get a close form expression of the Primal variable in terms of the duel. no, I mean, we are looking at a very, very specific quadratic problem. in some sense it's kind of an easy optimization problem. yeah, okay, okay. but but I just also want to want people to know: is that, you know, even though the optimization people, obviously for them it's easy to know, but the actual methods that came up to solve these problems were very much. it wasn't obvious how to solve this problem to them very fast for very, very large data sets. and it's the machine learning people who kind of did that and in a way, the it led to these fast methods- SGD and coordinate descent- and on which then later paved the way for de right kind of. there's a kind of a chain of things that that has happened and you know it's, it's the work in this area ended up being very valuable for you know the current work and who knows what will happen in the future. and that's why we kind of teach the basics in this class: okay, let's move on, let's. we saw something called complimentary slackness, right, okay, complimentary slackness, what did it say? it said that at optimality, the alpha I- I'm not going to put the Y, the Stars, over here- Alpha i, w, w, KN must satisfy this lrange multiplier times F of fi, W Star, right, which is 1 minus Yi W. transpose x i plus W = zero for all R. okay, that's exactly the complimentary slackness condition over here. where was it this one? the lrange multiplier times the inequality constraint must be equal to zero, and just, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not writing the W star, that's all the stars over here. but but these are Optimal Solutions, okay, what does this mean? okay, remember, it means that if Alpha I is greater than zero, then y i, w transpose x i plus W must be equal to 1, which means that this quantity must be equal to zero. and if Yi- I don't think I need this initial brackets- if y i * W transpose x i + W is greater than 1, then Alpha I should be equal to zero. okay, this is just algebra, right. but now let's come back to our two class problem. right, we have two classes, okay, the pluses, and the second class, the minuses. right, and remember, we said that this is our hyper plane, this is w and this is the margin, and we are trying to maximize the margin. okay, maybe, instead of minuses, I'll. just because it gets confused with the dotted lines. there are some pluses over here. okay, now let's look at this condition. right, if y, i, w transpose XI plus, this means that this XI is right on the margin. it's right, these right here. okay, let me write this in red: y, i, w transpose x, i + W = 1 and this XI is basically these XIs, because it's met with equality. that means that these lie on the margin, right. that means if the alpha I is greater than zero, that means these points are on the mar, on the started line, right. and similarly the o, yeah, sorry, is that what you were saying from? yes, because then Yi is yeah. and then, and remember what is my? w is equal to summation of alpha I. let me just write it below. I already wrot sorry. w is equal to summation of alpha i, y, i and this condition. what it is saying is this condition, okay, I don't need to maybe write the whole thing in green- but x, i, this mean that they don't lie on the margin. and if they don't lie on the margin, it means what Alpha I for them is equal zero. Alpha I equal zero. oh, sorry, yes, Alpha equal Z. right, and here it was that. sorry, the picture is getting mled. but Alpha I iser than okay. but you can say that you know from here. W is linear combination. this is at optimality right of support vectors. okay, and the support vectors are the ones that are kind of supporting the hyper plane, right, that's why they are called support vectors. these are alpha I is greater than Z. you kind of get this really beautiful interpretation. now, the separating hyper plane, the optimal separating hyper plane, is just a linear combination of the support vectors where the alphas are greater than zero. one of the reasons why you know svms were important is because you know you don't really necessarily in classification, you don't really care about what this looks, you just want to separate the you know one class from the other and that's what the support Vector machines are doing. they don't you, you're not trying to model this as a, you know, multivaried gausin. you don't really care what this is, what distribution this comes from, all you're trying to do is separate the two. right, and support Vector machines were, you know, one of the best performing methods for doing classification till deep learning came along, and the reason why deep learning is much, much better is different, right, it basically allows you to have lots and lots of parameters and optimize over them. okay, any questions. and see, we could only arrive at this by understanding The Duality right, otherwise you would not be able to get this. there's a very important, important issue far that we haven't talked about, which is that we've kind of assume that the problem is linearly separable. right, but in practice, you know, you can have outliers, you can have noise, or the problem might not be linearly separable for it to be a viable method, right, you need this to be applicable to nonlinearly separable data. okay, I'm very quickly going to give you the idea behind nonlinearly separable data. right, recall the original separable right. now, I'm going to say that you know this problem. then, remember this was also a drawback of the percepton. right, in the percepton, it was not clear how to modify the problem, but it turns out that for the svm, we have a very good modification which, in practice, works really well. the initial thing that we did when we started talking about maximizing the margin: right, we said we want to try to maximize C, which was the margin, such that each point, the margin of each point, would be greater than equal to C Norm of w. right, and what we are going to do is that instead of. this basically says that the points are separated by a margin. right, this basically says that the points have to be linearly separable. okay, in order to extend this to nonlinearly separable data, in order to allow nonseparable data sets, we? what we will do is we will relax the above inequality to have a slack. what do I mean? we will change the inequality such that I have same thing on the left hand side. right, because that's just talking about. you know whether the problem is correctly classified or not, but I will have C, and then we will introduce SATA, time nor of, and this is going to be greater than equal to Z. okay, and you can see that s, s, i, sorry, s i is greater than equal to Z. right, suppose that it is zero. then you get back the problem. now, suppose you start increasing it, suppose you make it one. that just means that it is correctly classified, and then, as you make it bigger than one, then we assume that some points could be incorrectly classified by the hyper plane. okay, here is the. you know, if I now, you know, make this change, then, same as before, same as earlier. okay, we can fix C * Norm of w to be equal to 1. and then I get- now I'm going to not go into lot of details, but nonlinearly separable- SPM will have the form which is: you take the Primal, you take w, w, not s. you take half Norm W Square. this Remains the Same, half the objective. but now you have three variables, three sets: w, w, s, and you have Yi * W. transpose x: i + W is greater than equal to, instead of 1, you get 1 minus i, y = 1. 2 to n. and then you basically, you know, remember that SII is greater than equal to zero. and what you can do is you can say that, you know, I want to control how much. you know, remember, the larger the SII is, that means the you know more uncertain. in some sense. you know, it starts lying on the wrong side of the hyper plane right when s is greater than equal to one. you want to limit the size of the SII. one way to do it is you say that the summation of sis is less than equal to a constant, and what then one can do typically is you can take this and you can put it over here. okay, that's kind of trying to derive it, right, but if I had to give the final svm Prime Primal. it would be: minimize half Norm of w² plus the gamma parameter. summation of s i. okay, and then the constraints I have. again, I'll write it as a linear inequality constraint: 1 - i, i - Yi W. transpose x: i+ w is less than equal to Z, for I = 1 to n, and we have introduced these extra variables. s i is greater than equal to zero. okay, and if you want to treat the corresponding inequality constraints, you would basically have that minus I, I is less than equal to zero. okay, this is the non linearly separable, which is how it should be okay, because in in the beginning you won't know whether the problem is linearly separable or not. the SPM problem is basically this one. I did not want to introduce the full generality of the problem right in the beginning. okay, it's exactly this. okay, and the correspond oning dual, again for non linearly separable. the corresponding dual is you basically chug through the same Machinery that I did before, right, and what you end up getting is you get maximum of maximize over Alpha. very similar summation of alpha I: I = 1 to n - 12. summation of I = 1 to n. summation of J = 1 through n, Alpha I, Alpha J, X. I transpose XJ: no change far in the optim in the FN or Alpha I is greater than equal to zero. summation of alpha i, y, i equal Z far. this is the same as this linearly separable svm. but it turns out kind of really interesting that if I apply the Machinery over here and look at you know the Dual problem, then all I get is that this is less than equal to gun. okay, as exercise, you can do the following, which is: derive the above FM. do- I would encourage you to to do it okay, which is, you know from here, apply the different steps that we had: right form, the lrin form, the gradient with respect to W and with side. this time that's going to be the new thing I- I think I miss, I made a mistake over here- and this is the S. do that, okay, and then substitute it in the dual function and this is what you will get. okay, that concludes. this lecture is probably the most mathematical of all the lectures that I will give, but I just thought that it would be interesting for you to see how you can use optimization Theory to get pretty good insights in the machine learning aspects. right, the fact that these vectors- these vectors only- are linear combination of the support vectors that lie on the margin is quite interesting, right? otherwise you would not have caught. and then in many courses in machine learning you'll hear people talk about support Vector machines. they'll just talk, you know this BL of points, BL points and the hyper plane, and that's what people end up getting. but I think it's really valuable for you, at least once in your life, to see that this can be derived from optimization Viewpoint. and we've only spent two lectures on it. right, it's not, we' spent lots and lots of lectures on this. okay, I'm a couple of minutes over, but any questions, thank you, that was very interesting. yeah, it is. yeah, I mean, that's why I to teach it, because I just find this super interesting. and you know just one thing: I would to also remind you, right, that you know you might say, oh, in the era of deep learning, you know who needs all this, right, but you don't know where the era of deep learning is going, right, it could be that many of the insights that you gain from here can be used to make your deep learning methods either better, or you know you can understand them better, or who knows what will happen in the future also, okay.