and today to kind of help you a little bit in some of the coding parts of the homework, NES will give a lecture and talk a little bit about py and Associated things. before n starts, any questions for me? okay, NES, why don't you take it over? okay, thank youit. as you said, today we'll be talking about, in general, Hands-On machine learning. we'll be looking at how do we want to design our machine learning experiment. what are the key questions we need to First even ask ourselves before going ahead, and then we'll discuss some of the tools that are commonly used to to achieve our goals, achieve, Implement our solution and also document them properly. here, some of the key tools that we'll be discussing is going to be pytorch, of course. that's the Deep learning framework that we'll be using in the class and which it's also the most open source and widely used machine learning framework. we'll also be going discussing a bit about one B, which is a machine learning documenting tool. here, and other than this we will look essentially into, we'll look at a demo problem which is similar to what what you have in your homework as well, but it's it's a simpler one, and we'll look of what a life of an ml experiment looks when we, when we go about solving this demo problem. yeah, let's go ahead. a life of an ml experiment is far from just training a model. it encompasses an entire life cycle that includes problem formulation, data Gathering, pre-processing, model building, training, evaluation and a continuous iteration among each of these components. in this notebook it's it's a. it's going to be a live demo kind of a lecture. I'll will at some places, I will on the Fly, will write the code as well, and feel free to stop me anywhere in the during the lecture if something is confusing or something is not clear how it happen. yeah, and here for for the demo problem. here we'll be using a subset of the CFR 10 where we want to identify images of cats from images of dogs. we'll be dealing with a binary image classification task and we'll see how how we build a neural network and train it and visualize some of the, the key parametrics that we want to look at. the first, let's discuss what are the key stages in the ml experiment life cycle. one is: you define your problem. here you the core things that you want to do is understand the problem that you are trying to solve and Define clear objectives and metrics that will be used to assess success. then you want to Define Your solution. what is on, what is the backbone of your solution going to look? here, the key things you want to do is: you want to want to concretize the data presentation, your model, your loss and your optimiz optimization choice, and this stage essentially involves mapping the problem to a concrete machine learning setup. and then you go about doing implementing a solution, where there are multiple steps, but of course, you begin with setting up the envirment, deciding which framework to use. you, you, you- want to prepare your data in a format which is amable to your machine learning framework, and then you want to set up the model and optimization process. then you train your model, you evaluate and you continuously log some of the key metrics that you can make judgments of how, how your training went, and for that we will use experiment tracking tools- WB, as I said earlier. and then you, you, based on the feedback that you get, you iterate over your experiments. we'll be going into a detail of each of these components. of course, we'll be delving a lot, much deeper on the implementing part. but that's going to be the overview of this lecture and let's begin by how, what, what questions we want to. we ask ourself when we go about defining a problem. for, as I said, the demo problem that we'll be using is: we want to classify images of dogs versus cats. first, U, there are three, I think, main questions that we want to ask: what is my input going to look? and here, most of in most of the machine learning that we typically do, there is some form of predictiveness. we've given for an input. we want to predict some output. this is not always true. there are going to be some machines learning problems where you don't have a output, you. it's not predictive in nature, but that's still a small part and far the things that we have seen are of this nature. I'm just just just using that large class of problems to Define these questions. but, yeah, be aware that. okay, right now I have one of the questions that I have listed is: what is my output? it may not always be true that you have some output to predict on, but for the large class of ml problems- you, it will be the case. first question is: what is my input? X, and for this demo problem, the input is going to be an image of a dog or a cat. and then you want to ask: what is my output? the output is going to be a label, indicate indicating whether the image is a cat or a dog. and and how do I want to measure success in this case? one Natural Choice is we measure the accuracy over some set of data points, where accuracy is defined as the percentage of correctly classified images. for, for this simplistic, simple example of just doing this binary classification, it, this, this Choice, this, these answers do make sense and they, they, they are a good enough choice. but maybe one exercise problem that we can see is what, if you want to build chat, GPT, then in that case, what is? how will you go about answering these questions? I mean, there is maybe not a clear answer to these questions, but if anyone still wants to take stab at it and maybe interactively, we can try to answer or at least list some of the potential choices. I guess, first thing, we we need to just poize the input. we can, you know, work with some numerical values, as we usually do. and then this is not, you know I'm coming up it, but you know a background knowledge- that basically giving some tokens and predicting the next in. in that sense, if we penize the text Data, then we can have some numerical vectors as an input and based on whatever window size that you want. we can say: you know, let's look at 16 tokens and generate or predict the next one, or look at 16,000 tokens and generate the next one, but basically that's probably how it plays out. you are right in a sense, but I think that's that's still going too ahead. what I would say is what you are describing is a, is, is is the component of a solution, how, how you want to go about solving that problem. but here we are still at a, even a b, more basic step, that for this problem that okay, I am a company and to me, someone gave me a problem that you, I, I should build chat GPT. then what does even my input is going to be? how, how do I Define this problem? build chat GPT is very vague problem, right? what is my inputs? I mean, you're correct that that I understand. that's what. what I mentioned was just the language model, which is still far from a conversational system, and all that because you know that model, just predict the next word. but then you know how do you answer. you know something. you know how how many words you're going to predict and then you're going to stop. and all these, I guess, becomes the the the more more the details about the problem, and we're still far from what you just mentioned, which is, how do we frame the whole thing right? yeah, how do you even frame? how do you even concretize this statement? build CH, GPT here, of course, what is my input? in the- at least a couple of years ago, I mean, everything was mostly it was a conversational chat bot, which which, where your input is almost all of the times just text. one option could be: your input is going to be a text. it can be any generic text, but, okay, these days it's not just text. it could be text and images combined. we can. I mean, these are, yeah, these are some of the particular options. what ises my input? X can look for for this problem, but again, this, this may not be the exhaustive list. you, you might want to consume any Media or any kind of thing that can be captured in in by by your computer. it can be videos, it can be a document in some special format, yeah, but, but these are some of the simple choices maybe that we can take to answer this question and then for about the output in. in the case of chat, GPT, I guess it's it's still going to be something similar as your input because it it kind of is operating in the same domain as your input. it the I think the same applies. it's either the text or it could be a text and a image or any kind of multimedia here. I think maybe I can answer it this. but then how do I measure success? for for this V problem, what is my measure of success? is it- is it going to be something similar to accuracy that I defined earlier, that I have some, some, some gold answers and I I just compare it, whatever my model predicted was exactly equal to the gold answer or not. accuracy is one option, but yeah, of course it's it's. it doesn't feel right because it's it's. there are in in in the such a general case, there is no one definition of the gold answer. one thing that we can think of is maybe we we generate multiple answers from our model and rate it using an expert. I'm just listing some of the things that that we can do in this case, but yeah, I'm also realizing that I may be taking too much time in discussing this. yeah, I'll if, if there's any question, I'll stop here. otherwise, maybe we should jump into defining our Solutions and how do we go about implementing it. okay, let's come to. how do we want to Define our solution? when in defining our solution? I feel these are the questions that we want to answer and this may not be an exhaustive list. if you, if you, by by going over this lecture, if you feel there is something else we want to Define, yeah, do let me know. but the first thing is: how do I make a collection of such inputs and outputs, also known as how do I create my data set? for the demo example that we saw, we can gather images of cats and dogs from various sources and manually label them. someone has already done this for us. the CFR 10 data set exists and we'll be just using a subset of that data set and our case, but typically for a general ml problem. that's where you start. you have defined what your X and Y is going to look. now you want to collect your data and then the question you want to, you want to ask is: how do you represent your input X in numbers? because, as we have seen, machine learning algorithms just consume numbers. they can't consume any other format in. in this case we can represent an image as a 3D tensor, or tensor is just a n dimensional array. we'll be using tensors quite a lot in this in this lecture, but yeah, just know that tensor is just a n dimensional array and I say 3D tensor because an image is typically represented by its height and width and there are three channels for RBG. that's how we can potentially represent an image and that itself gives us a, a, a tensor of numbers, which, which is a good represent? which which mathematical model can consume? then we come to: how do I represent my output in numbers? here we can represent the output as a single number. we can assign zero for cat, one for dog and we want to predict either zero or one, and this is we have seen in binary classification task. and then we come to: how do I map my input to my output. this is also known as what is my model? in this case, of course, there are multiple choices. any mathematical functions which takes you from a 3D tensor to a, a scalar output works here. but, as we have seen, maybe neural networks are one good choice. we'll be using a simple, fully connected neural network with one headden layer. then we come to how do I measure success in a differentiable way? because we want to optimize this, this is also known as what is my loss function. we have already seen in the class that binary crossentropy for binary classification task is a a good choice, and note that you again, we quantify the opposite of success. that is the cost of making a mistake when we are defining the loss functions. and the last question is: how do I train my model? I have the my solution Define. what is my training process is going to look? also, what is my Optimizer? here we'll be using stochastic gradient descent to minimize the loss. remember, the stochastic gradient descent is just a mini batch version of gradient descent which operates on small samples of your data set u once at a time, at at one one time. these are the choices that we are making for our solution for this problem of classifying the images of dogs from cats. I think these questions you can ask for any kind of ml problems that you go about solving and they will kind of set up your solution logically that this is what you want to do. now let's look at how. how do we go about implementing such a solution using current and most popular Frameworks that exist. we first go into setting up the envirment. here we'll be doing a bunch of imports. the most of the Imports are for p torch, which you import it, this import torch, and these are the primary libraries used for building and training neural networks. and then there are sub modules in this Library. the important ones are which I have imported here is ts NN, which contains the building blocks for creating neural networks, and then there is nn functional, which provides functions for that are used as building blocks in neural networks. then another one important one is the tor optim. this usually provides implementations of various optimization algorithms such as SGD. and then there is ts data, which simplifies the. it provides abstraction over your data loading process for doing training and evaluation. in this case, since we are using the C 10 data set, which is a very popular data set available inside this torch vision data sets. that's also something that what we are importing. let's just run this block to have all of these libraries in our environment. and now another set of Library- not set, but another library that we'll be using to kind of track. our experiment is this: w b, which is which is short for weights and biases. it is. it is pretty neat: a library to log metrics, visualize results, store them in the cloud, and just we will. will as we go we'll see how power, what all we can do with it. it's a. I mean it does require you to create an account and then you, when the first time you run it, you have to enter some of your credentials that it can store on the cloud. you can also run without logging in, but that way you'll be only storing your data locally here. I have already set it up, this envirment. it won't ask me to log in, but it will say that currently logged in as my username, and then it creates a run for this experiment which is available here when you're try initializing this Library. these are the key things that you want to mention. first, the project. project is: just assume, imagine it is just a folder for your experiment and you give a name to it- here it's handson, ml, live demo- and then you define the config. config is where you store your hyper parameters. these are the variables that you might want to iterate over with that you just give it as a config. here I know I'll be using learning rate, number of epo, bat size, these kind of things later as a as my hyper parameter. I have listed them here. they don't need to be fixed. often times you EXP, experiment and then you realize maybe something else you want to introduce as a hyper parameter over the life of an ml experiment. you can you keep modifying it here. there are some links that it gives it. it it gives you the link of view project at this and on M live demo and view the run here. if I click here, okay, it's opening the [Music]. it opens up this and there there is only one run, which is this. it gives a name: fresh rain. there are no metrics logged yet. nothing appears here, but as we'll see later, it will. this, this thing will starts getting populated as we start writing our data here. yeah, coming back to our notebook, we can just. it's just our config. I've just printed here. now our envirment is: we have set up, set it up, our envirment, and then comes the data preparation part. here, as I said, we'll be using a subset of the ca 10 data set and- and since we are dealing with images, typically there is some form of pre-processing you want to do over, over, over over images that your neural networks performs in a generalizable way and that you can Define using this transforms module provided by pytorch. here we have composed two transforms to be applied on an image. first is it? it converts it into the tensor. the second, it it normalizes your. it normalizes your image by this mean and this standard deviation, and that we, in the next cell, we'll see how do you pass this function. it it? it just creates a transform function here here, and then you can also optionally pass this target transform function which which will map your targets to from one value to another. we are using it for, as you can see, it's a very simple function here. it it? it gives you zero if x equal to 3, other if the input is three, otherwise it gives one, because we want to to map cats to zero and dogs to one, and in CA 10, cats take the label three and dogs take the label five. that's why we have just made this target transform which will- because we'll be subsetting our CA hold CA 10 data set to just to cats and dogs. that's why we we have this target transform which will map it to just zero and one. this is about the transformation functions that you can typically use. then you you load the data set using this data sets CA 10. as you can see, you give the the transform and Target transform functions here and let me just this it: if, if, if the data is not already downloaded, it will download it and cach it in some local, Direct or some cash directory. here I have already have the data downloaded. yeah, just reuse that here. if you can see, these two statements are just loading the full data set and then I'm trying, I'm identifying which are the indexes which correspond to classes three and five. class three is cat, class 5 is dog and I'm just doing my training data set. now is is the subset of the full data set, subset it over the the three and five indexes and similarly I'm subsetting the test data set and then we create a validation data set. we choose that, okay, 80% of the data points from the training set we'll be using at as we'll be using as training points, and 20% of them will be using as validation data set. validation data set is used to: while you keep, while you iterating over your hyper parameters, trying to find the, the, the best hyper parameter for your experiment, you use your validation data set to validate those choices here. 8020 split is a common choice that people typically make. that's what we are doing, and this, this command, does a random split of your train data set of sizes, train size and Val size. that will give me my train data set and my validation data set here U. it's always a good, good, good practice to kind of just see your data set and see if how does it look. we can try to visualize some sample images from the data set. as you can see, there are not very High Fidelity images, but they do resemble. some of them are cats, some of them are dogs, and that's what our data set is. you can also do more Advanced analysis and try to figure out how many data points correspond to a particular class and maybe something else. but here I'm just giving you a sample visualization that you may want to do when you're are working with, with, with your data set that you have created after this. now we have the data set in our space and then what you want to create is something called a data loader. a data loader is another abstraction over your data set, which is it's, it's, it's a. it gives you functionality to load data in batches, as I said, typically in deep learning or machine learning, when, when we are doing any any kind of gradient descent, we are typically doing the stochastic version of the gradient descent or the mini batch version of it. we load our data in batches and then we run our model or our training or evaluation on on batches. this because this is such a common operation. there's a, a dedicated functionality given for by P torch, which which lets you wrap around your data set in the data loader object. and here the some of the key arguments that you want to pass here is: you want to pass U, your what's your bat size is going to be here. here I'm just using my config dobat size, which I defined when I was defining my want B environment. here I'm using the 32 bat size and [Music]. sorry, right. and then another key argument that you want to Define is whether you want to shuffle this data set or not every time you are iterating over your data loader. for training, you do always kind of want to shuffle your data set and for validation in test, you want to keep it to false, and that's what we have done. we have created this data loader, strain loader, Val loader and test loader. that concludes our data processing steps that are involved. are there any questions far? yeah, okay, let's. let's look into setting up our model loss and Optimizer, which, which are the key components of our solution. sorry, just give me SEC. yeah, okay, any kind of neural network that you, any kind of model that you define in in in py you you define it as a class which sub subclasses this NN do module of NN do module is just a easy wrapper that that py torch provides, which which lets you makes your life quite easy in terms of organizing all the parameters in one's place and working through them. here, as I said, we we have created this class, simple binary net, and we have subclassed it from the nn module, any kind of mod neural network class that you create. you want to Define two main functions. one is the init and the other one is the forward. in it kind defines what are your parameters going to look, what, what, what are your moduel parameters are? and then, in the forward, as, as the name suggests, you are doing the forward pass of your network. it takes your input and it Returns the, the, the output which is expected from your model. here I have U. I have left it empty to implement on the fly, but I do realize that maybe I'm running out of time. I'll just just just give write the code here directly and then we can go over. what are the important components of it. just give me a second. okay, this is here. this is the completed implementation of this new network, as you can see, in in it we have essentially four parameters. first is W1, which is a matrix from, of, of, of shape, input size, cross, hidden size. input size is one of the arguments to this init function and it is of the shape 3 cross 32, CR 32, which is going to be the shape of our image. and then we have the hidden size. hidden size can also be passed as an argument, and remember that in when I was defining my hyper parameters, I had this hidden size. what was one of the components to it? I can programmatically pass that hidden size to my network. if, if you look at it how, you want to define a par parameter inside your model, you, you, you, you just create a tensor of that shape, for example. here I'm doing creating this, this okay, for example, let's for this one. I'm just want to demonstrate one okay view here: the. if you do tor randn, it just gives you random values of the shape 4 cross 8. that's what we are doing here. we are creating a random Matrix of shape input size plus hidden size. but you will notice that I'm also sort of normalizing it by some quantity and in your homework as well as. maybe, if there is some time, we will see that this form of normalization, which is kind of how you're initializing your parameters, is kind important and but right now this is one, one way to appropriately initialize u? u MLP inside your neural network. but there are other ways, proposed in literature as well, which you are going to kind of explore as part one of, as one part of your homework. but yeah, right now I have just the right implementation here. everything works. but yeah, just wanted to point out that this form of normalization is important when you are initializing a parameter. we have this U W1, which is a parameter of shape input, size, cross, hidden size. then we have the bias parameter for this layer, which is just zeros of shape hidden size, and then we have W2 and which is the your, your output layer. this takes the, this consumes the outputs of the first layer as its input and then it just gives one scale- that's why it's of the size, hidden size, cross one. and even this, we are initializing it properly. our neural network works, and then we can have a bias parameter here. and then we- I've just defined my hidden activation function. I'm this also, I'm passing it as an argument. if it's sigmoid, I, I use the F do sigmoid function, otherwise I'm using fr. IF intive is relu, you can, yeah, just add anything that you want here, any function. now let's look at the forward function. in the forward function, we, we get the input X, which is a input tensor of shave bat size, cross 3, cross 32, cross 32 [Music]. here, because we can maybe- okay, later we'll see one example of a bat there. I can show you that the shape is of this. it's. it's wrong, it should be B comma 32. it's. it's a four dimensional tensor of bath size cross 3, cross 32, cross 32. first we flatten it out, we, we. this is an operation that can be done, it's. it's just you're reshaping it, you're keeping the first, first axis, and then you are flattening out all of the other axises, and this you typically do by denoting it by minus one. all the rest of the axis gets U concatenated on this, this, this second axis in this, in this, this lecture, I'm not going into details of all of the operations that P torch offers, but the goal is to kind of give you an overview of how an ml, xent or X ml implementation looks. that's why I'm not going too much detail into how how this is operating under the hood. but yeah, just take the word that this operation is flattening the image into the shape of bad size comma, all the other Dimensions concatenated, which is going to be 3 * 32 * 32. and then in our forward pass- if you remember from the last to last lecture, last, yeah, last to last to last lecture that we did on introduction to deep learning, in The Matrix notations, we write it, we do the matrix multiplication between X and W1 and then we add the B1. this will give us a, a, a tensor which is of shape bad size, cross, hidden size, and this is our Z1. then we apply our hidden activation function on Z1 to get our A1. then we take A1 and do the same operation as Z1, but this time we hit we multiply it by W2 and we add the bias B2 as well and this gives us the Z2. and ideally maybe we should have done A2 equal to self, do hidden activation function of Z2, but and then we should have returned the A2, because these, these neurons, all of these neurons also have the nonlinearity, but typically when at the output layer, most of the times the nonlinearities are kind of hidden inside your loss function. your loss function already just includes the final hidden activation that is going to be used, and in this case also, it is true, that's why we are not adding any the the hidden activation after Z2. we'll be just returning Z2 here and that's our forward function, and we have defined this class. we are instantiating it by simple binary net. we give the hidden size, we get the hidden activation. and then- this is something interesting which one B allows us to do. we are adding this model in the WB doat function. what it does is- we'll see later- that it it lets us visualize how our parameters, or the gradients, that the parameters it is receiving over time, that it allows us to visualize that and there are certain parameters that you can set. what you want to visualize you. we here all means that we we are visualizing both the gradients and the model parameters. and then there is this log frequency which is at at after how many steps we want to visualize it, because this is will will kind of store all your parameters and all your gradients. maybe you you don't want to do it- U after every step. that's why we Define this frequency. we will'll see those visualizations when we run our network. but yeah, just wanted to mention that that's what this wb watch is doing and why is it and why do we want to do it. maybe if there is time we can go into when we are debugging this new network. but yeah, these just visualizing. having a visualization of how your parameters are evolving and what kind of gradients they are getting is very helpful when you are debugging on your network. any questions far. okay, let's run this cell, yeah, and then we Define our loss function and Optimizer, the loss function that we are using. typically it's named Criterion. I'm not really sure what's, what's the background behind naming it. Criterion is, but that's what it is and that's what Ive also used. we are defining this loss function. it's already provided to you. all of the standard loss functions is already given to you by by pytorch. but if you want to implement your own loss function, you are free to do that. it's it's this BC. with logits. loss is just your binary cross entropy loss, which also has a sigmo operation prepended to it. it will take its predict it's. it takes two, as we'll see. it takes two arguments: one is your prediction one, and the other is your target values, which is your Gold Label, and then it it applies sigmoid to your predictions and then it it U applies the binary crossentropy loss function to which, which takes your Y and Y hat, which is your goal, Target and prediction predicted values in in the function fun. that's been already wrapped around for you by the py torch library and similarly the, the optimization process. the optimizer is also wrapped around for you and the optim do SGD to to any Optimizer you want to pass the model do parameters and the, the, the kind of the hyper parameters that this particular Optimizer is going to be using. in case of SGD, it is pretty simple. it just takes the learning rate as U as its argument. let's just run this and now maybe let's look at. okay, it's as, as I said when, when we defined our data set it's. it's always good to visualize what our data is looking. here as well, once we have defined our Network, it's always a good idea to visualize what exactly is that network doing and how are things looking, to visualize that, there is a nice Library called torch Wiz which lets you you visualize kind of the forward pass of of a model, your neural network. for that it needs a sample of your data to operate on. we'll just get- I didn't run it- we will get a sample batch from our data loader and maybe let's also briefly look what is our sample bat. it's, it's, let's print it's. let's print its type. it's a list. the list is of length two. let's look at what its first element is. first element is a tensor. you can see, see its shape, as you can see it's. it's of the shape 32 cross 3 cross 32 cross 32. that's your size of your image and this is your batch size. and let's look what our second element to our batch is and, as you can see, it's just a tensor of zeros and ones, which is of shape 32 because we have 32 bat size. that's what your data loader outputs. this is a sample batch and to visualize it we will make a prediction on this sample batch. the model, our model, takes the, the first, the x of my batch, and maybe I could have also written it, this x, comma, y = to sample batch. here I could. this makes clearer than this is my f. yeah, Let's, you'll need the index zero for the sample patch. why do I need? I mean, I'm running on a batch of examples, okay, yeah, yeah, because my mom, my forward pass is written for a batch input. I do need the bats access. got it right. as you can see, this is what it neatly visualizes what my forward pass looks and for this simple Network it is still not that complicated. but it can get pretty complicated if you have very complex networks. but still it's, it's a good youtility to have and you can. I think there are ways to neatly organize those complex networks within this Library as well. but here we can see that all of the leaf nodes, or the trainable parameters, are denoted in this blue box which is your W1, B1, W2, B2. all of your trainable parameters are here and then at the end we have this loss function which is getting computed. you can trace, trace this gra and you can verify that it is doing what What U it should be doing. just a note on this accumulate grad thing. it's just implementation detail that this, this Library. what it does is it analyzes the backward pass of your model and then it it takes that that backward pass graph to do this visualization. and in the backward pass U, before every parameter, after every parameter, there is this accumulate grad function, which is just simple function, which is adding the gradients, the new gradients that appears to your existing gradients of your model. I don't think that detail is necessary, but if you just wondering why, why is this weird thing showing up in this graph? that's the reason. yeah, I mean, we, we, we kind of looked at our computational graph and it makes sense. let's go ahead and let's see, let's set up our training and evaluation Loops. even here, I thought I'll go over and write these code, but yeah, I don't really have too much time left, I'll just go ahead and copy. just quickly, going over our train function, this is the function which takes our model, our device device. py torch is a very powerful Library which lets you use gpus and tpus as well, which are the hardware accelerators which which are specifically designed for Matrix operations in. in this demo we are not using it or not even showing what the difference is. but just for completeness sake, I have this device. It Takes the Train loader, it takes your Optimizer, it takes your loss function and the epoch that you're running, for this is something important that you want to in py toch, you want to call this you dot- train on your model. this sets up the right Flags inside your model to set it up for training. and then these are just some variables which we want to keep track of: our, the running loss of when we are iterating over, when we are doing one Epoch of training. and this is just a progress bar object that we are making, which is just a wrapper around our on our train loader. coming to the main part, which is this, the, the body of our for Loop. we are it over our data loader. we are getting the data- the X and and the Y from from and putting it to the right device, which is which which we passed as an argument. and then one thing that you want to do is we want to do op call Optimizer, do0, gr. this sets all of the gradients of your parameters to zero. if you don't set it, as I said, as we saw Here, There is a accumulate grad operation- it will keep on adding to your the existing gradients that you had for that variable. we'll keep on aggregating the gradients in most of the times. we don't want to do that. that's why it is sort of important to call this Optimizer, Zer, grad, before your, your iteration begins, and we call zero grad and then we get the output. we, we do the forward pass, which is simply the model of data. this gives us output. sorry, this, the output is going to be this, this Z2, that we we kind the, the return of our forward pass. and here now we are Computing the loss, which is the Criterion, our loss function. it takes our output and it takes the target that we got from our data loader and this computes the variable, the scalar variable, loss, and then we call loss backward. this is what is main of the core ease of pytorch: that it lets you compute all the gradients for your parameters just by calling this loss backward. under the hood it is doing Auto diff, which stands for Auto differentiation. it takes your neural network. it know because it has built this graph. it knows what each intermediate values were, from which functions and from which variables each of the intermediate functions came from. it applies the chain Rule and it can automatically compute the all of the gradients for these parameters. this is kind of the main line where all the magic is happening, and it is pretty simple and much powerful as well. after you have done this, you, you, in all of the leaf parameters that you have, the boxes in blue, their dot, their gradient, gets, gets computed and stored in something: W1, do, grad or b1.. grad, the, the, the grad. you can access the gradients by just appending do, grad to those variables names and the gradients gets populated and then we are doing Optimizer, do, step. this is what is doing your, your, it is taking the gradient and it is updating your model parameters by the gradient. remember, in case of a gradient descent, this operation looks, you have W and then you, you take, you, you take a, a scaled negative step in the direction of your gradient. it's, it's going to look something w equal to W minus your learning rate times gradient. that's what this operation will do. as we'll see later in the class, these optimizers are not always that simple: the, the, these update rules can get complicated. that's why it's it's kind of everything is abstracted in this Optimizer do step. for any kind of Optimizer you can just call Optimizer, do, step and it will do its update rule. excuse me, is that step function also take learning rate into consideration? right? because when you defined your Optimizer, you the learning rate. here it knows the learning rate. yeah, there were two things that you gave. you gave the model do parameters, which is a list of these blue boxes, and you give your learning rate, which is the, your, your hyper parameter for this particular object, your Optimizer object, it, it does take the learning rate into account. thank you, okay. that kind of concludes the main, the Crux of your training Loop. and here it's, it's just some logging statements. we are updating the running loss, we are then appending it to our progress bar and also we are logging it at to the our want be object. we'll see that these, these variables Will Come As Nice graphs when we run this training Loop. that concludes our training Loop. and then we come to the evaluate. and yeah, in the interest of time, I'm not going too much detail on the evaluate Lo, but you can go over this code and it's not really not that complicated, it's, it's it. the essential bit is this: that it, it is getting the data, it is doing the forward pass, it is Computing the test loss by, by running the loss function, and then we are also measuring the accuracy which is we, we make the prediction as if, if, my, if, the out, the sigmoid of my output was greater than 0.5, then I say it is one, and then I check whether this is equal to my target or not and, summing it up over my batch access, also here, when you're are evaluating, it's always an in in machine learning it it is. these things are very fragile. it is always better to have some, some grip over what is happening at at different stages of your experiment. if, as I said earlier as well, well, in in every step, it is u a very good idea to have some visualizations, which which which gives you insights into what's happening here as well, we are kind of saving the first batch of sample predictions and then we are adding that to our WB logs and we will see that even these images and their predictions will come nicely when we open our dashboard. that's our evaluation Loop- and then comes to. then we come to the training model. here it's a simple Loop. we are iterating over our number of epoch that we defined in config. we are training the model, we are evaluating the model on validation split and we are also evaluating the model on the training split to get the training accuracy. this way we can sort of monitor whether the model is or if the training accuracy is increased, ing, but the validation accuracy is not increasing, that means the model is going more into the regime of overfitting the data. that's why it's, yeah, a good idea to always keep track on the, your training accuracies or training, the difference between your training accuracy and your validation accuracy as well. okay, let's finally run this training Loop and see what. what do we get in? right? this model is running. I think I'm currently running for 10 epochs [Music] and here I'm, after every Epoch, I'm printing the average, the on the validation set, average loss and accuracy, and on the training set, average loss and accuracy. as you see, the training accuracy is always a bit higher than validation set, and when the, this difference becomes larger and larger. when the training continues, the, the. now we can see the magic of the, the weights and biases Library. if I reload this page because I was tracking everything, I do see these nice visualizations. this is my validation loss over the course of training, which is a bit Jagged. this is my training loss after every step. that's why it's it is. it is Wiggly, but typically you you kind of smooth out your training losses. here you can do it by. yeah, if you smooth out. you can get the overall sense of what ex exactly is the trend. and then, as you can see, the training accuracy is monotonically increasing as we will continue doing training. but the validation- I crazy it is more Wiggly which would sort of Mak sense because we are training on, on our training data and validation is something which is just for testing. but but if you are, if your model is generalizing, then even this should have the same Trend as your training accuracy. now come to the other important things that we logged. one was G gradients. here, as you can see these W2, W1, B1, B2 parameters, you can see the gradients of your off of these parameters. it shows for after every 100 steps we are logging it. it kind of gives you a distribution of what these values look. in our case it kind of remains consistent, which is sort of a good thing. you you don't want to get very High your low gradients. you want to get something in which which is maybe centered around zero and is sort of maybe evenly distributed on the positive and negative side and is not too large, and that's what we are seeing here, which is a good sign. and then we can also see our parameters, similar to the gradients we can. it is giving you a distribution over your, your parameter values. this is also sort of something which is consistent, centered around zero, which which makes sense. then there is this panel, which is Media, since we, after every iteration we were, we were when we were evaluating, we were taking the first batch and we were visualizing how, how, what is my prediction, what is the goal Target here? as you can see, maybe initially the model wasn't that good. for this example, it is predicting cat, while the Gold Label is dog. it is sort of making some mistakes. I'm not going into into two in-depth analysis, but this is you can see that how this can be valuable over the course of training. you can see, maybe, where you are making mistakes and what kind of mistakes you're making. this is forms of visualizations are pretty helpful, which you can, which these libraries enable you to do. let's come back to our code. here. our training Loop is done at the end, at the end of your experimental U Loop, you want to test your model on your test set, and this is s similar to what what we did earlier in the training Loop that we were calling this evalu, our evaluate function, but this time we'll give the test loader and just name it as test. it will will. it will give you the test accuracy and you can, as you can see, it's 65.5 in our case- and after, after once you're finished with your experiment, you want to cover one b- finish. it finishes this run. it marks as at finished and it gives you this nice summary of your run history and, sorry, these variables will. now, if you reload, then you can see this test loss appears, this test accuracy appears and in in the media section, these test sample predictions also appear. that's mostly completes one run of your ml experiment. but, as I said earlier in in a typical life cycle of an ml experiment, you want to keep on iterating over it. you want to find the basic thing at least you want to do is you want to see the hyper parameter choices that you made. what, what are the right things to do? these libraries also allow you to do a hyperparameter sweep, which is it allows you to automatically explore different configurations to optimize your model performance, and you I'll, in the interest of time, I'll be quickly going over it, but of course you'll have access to this notebook and you can explore and in your time, how to do this. but just going quickly over it, it starts with you defining a sweep configuration. this is the method of your hyper parameter sweep that you want to do. you can typically you. you can do a, you can set it to base. that's a good default Choice which will do a informed hyper parameter space exploration if you are limited on compute. but if you want to be exhaustive, you can do grid, which will explore all of the hyper parameter, cross hyper parameter choices that you could have made. but here we'll just do base and then then you want to Define this. what metric are you looking for? what is your what? because here I want to maximize my valid validation accuracy. my, my metric name is validation accuracy and my goal is to maximize it. then the parameters of your: what hyper parameters you want to? you want to exp, do your hyper parameter exploration over? here I'm just giving a set of values for learning rate. I want to do hyper parameter sweep over U 001101. you can add anything. similarly for bat size, hidden size. these are the key things that I want to ablate over and I'm keeping the number of EO to be something small, because for hyper parameter sweeps you don't want to do full training. you want to just quickly test whether this- how is this hyper parameter good or not it? it is generally a good idea to keep it small. and then you give the sweep configuration to wb sweep. you specify which for which project you are doing- I'm just repeating that name that we gave earlier. this will give you a sweep ID, which is this: everything will get logged here. it gives you the URL and then here you define the sweep train function, which will take one particular config, and the config will be decided based on some instant, some instantiation of the all of the choices of your hyperparameters that exist, and then you are running your training Loop here and then logging all the important metrics that you want to log, and it it should have this Val accuracy as a as, as a, as something to be logged, because that is what we are trying to optimize in our hyper parameter sweep. this is something very similar to what we did earlier. I just Define The Sweep train function and then you run your hyper parameter sweep by this command, which is- and as you can see it, it is kind of sampling one configuration of your hyper parameters. among this, since we are using the base method, it is doing some informed Choice over these hyper parameter space and it is running it for three pox. it is giving you its run history and then it. it does it iteratively and everything gets logged here. far, three runs have completed. maybe just let's wait a minute. I think it shouldn't take too much time. in the meantime, if there are any questions far which I can quickly answer, I would be happy to take them. it should be close to being done. on the eighth experiment, this one I'm just running for 10 total experiments. this I specified here. okay, I didn't specify. but okay, let's look at the intermediate. these are all the different runs that we did, but this is too confusing to see. it also lets you kind of visualize this in this neat framework that what is the best accuracy that you got, and it was this run you could- you can open this run. and then something also important is, it also gives you this, this visualization, depending on all of the runs it did, far, what it thinks is the important. it computes the correlation factor with with of that, that hyper parameter, with the final metric that you were optimizing for, and is it correlated or not? based on that, it gives you a important score and here far. it says hidden size is sort of the more important thing, and then comes the learning rate. bad size is sort of not important at all, which is sort of true in most ml cases. but, and this is also something good, that it lets you visualize it. it gives you these individual runs with, with different paths they, they take, they took on the different axes. if here, as you see, this is the best curve and this and this was with learning rate 01, with hidden size 256, with bat size 128, and that give you that gave you the best result, maybe I should reload it that more runs are populated here. yeah, as you see, right now, I think, because I didn't give a count of how many experiments to do, it is running all of the possible experiments. but I mean this is pretty neat. it it lets you visualize U, what, what hyper parameters are important for you and what is their effect in the final accuracy that you are getting and in a typical lifetime of an ml experiment. you, you, you are doing these iterations again and again and this is a nice rapper to do it. and now, if you see, it says learning rate is the most important factor. once more runs got populated. yeah, that's mostly it in in the notebook. I do have a couple of things about what, some standard practices to do if you want to debug your neural network, because often times, as I said, these are very brittle in nature- even something very small, something initialization- can break them. you do want to debug them. there are some general rule of thumb kind of, or some litmus test that you can do to kind of debug your neural network. I'm not going in this lecture, but this notebook will be available. yeah, you can take a look at your own time, okay. well, thank you, Nish. that was, I think, very helpful for people who will be doing homework too and also, I think, further on in the course.