today we will in some sense it'll be the last lecture on regression, but I will talk a little bit about a seemingly different problem of collaborative filtering, recommendation or missing value estimation, and we'll see how regression naturally comes in. and then we will give you a homework today on the Netflix problem. Netflix, I think about nearly probably been about 20 years ago. they came up with a competition where they gave tra, you know training data, the released training data or you know subset of ratings that they had- I think it was about 20,000 movies, maybe half a million users or anonymized users, and they said that you know, on the on a heldout data set, they were achieving about .95 root mean square error and they posed a challenge and said that if anybody can improve the performance by 10%- about 85 root mean square error- then they would give that team a million dollars. it was the Netflix million doll challenge problem and it spurred on a lot of interesting work in machine learning, in particular in recommended systems, and we'll see one aspect of it where regression naturally comes and plays a role. I'll talk a little bit about that, talk about the problem, and then we will assign that as a homework and this homework will be available to you on canvas and it'll be due next week on Friday. before I start any questions, okay, let me kind of review a little bit about you know what we spoke about last time. we talked about regression and, in particular, regularization. in regression. we took an particular example about univariate polinomial fitting and we- I showed you some slides from the bishop book, which we will also upload- where if you use to higher degree of a polinomial to fit, you end up fitting the training data exactly, but you end up doing a poor job on the if a new test Point came up right. that's the phenomenon of overfitting. and then we saw that one of the ways in which it was manifest is that many coefficients were very large and we tried to, we basically added, ended up adding penalty on the size of the coefficient, coefficient terms. and when you add the penalty as sum of squares, which is the norm of w Square, then we get rid regression. and we looked at R regression and we saw it solution is very similar to a classical Le squares problem, except that you have Lambda I over here. but then we also analyzed it using the SVD, not just a computational tool, and we compared it to the Le squares regression problem, which is essentially an orthogonal projection onto a particular rain space, and we saw over here that this was in some sense- you know, a a case where the small singular values kind of are regarded as noise and they would be set to zero in a smooth way using R regression and the large singular values would essentially be preserved and would be equal to one. that kind of helps you a little bit better in understanding what regularize R regression does and you can think of it as a little bit of this phenomenon called shrinkage, which is you take the large singular values, you kind of keep them and the small singular values you kind of shrink them towards zero. okay, we gave us geometric interpretation also of rid regularization. that you know, if you were doing just Le squares regression you would just be- you know these points over here which are the global Minima right and that would just be the solution and these are the level sets of the quadratic functional that's in the Le squares problem and you can think of rid regression as saying that I'm going to make sure that my coefficients are have L2 Norm Square less than equal to certain value and that's given by this sphere and the when you minimize F of w, subject to the constraint that your variables lie in this region, then you get this solution. okay, and then we didn't do too much, we just introduced the lasso, which is instead of the squared penalty. we have absolute values, you know, and that can be thought of. as you know, all my coefficients, where the L1 Norm is less than a particular value is captured by this surface and you can see that this surface has corners and as, as a result, you know, when you minimize F of w subject to your coefficients living in this space, you kind of end up getting sparer Solutions. note that this, you know, obviously I'm drawing in 2D, but you know your competation is taking place or your model is lives in a d dimensional space. okay, we will kind of use a little bit of that material and today we will look at the problem of a special problem in missing value estimation. okay, and in particular, this problem comes up in the problem that we are going to talk about, comes up in recommender systems. okay, and again, the particular problem that we are going to talk about is also known as Matrix completion, and we'll see why it is called that- or Matrix factorization for recommender systems. okay, I told you a little bit about the next Netflix challenge. okay, suppose you have a bunch of users. okay, let's assume that there are M users and you know, obviously M could be in the hundreds of millions, even billions. now, right, and you have movies, or they could be you know some items, for example, let's say, on amazoncom. okay, and you have M users, and suppose you have N Movies, right, and typically users will rate a subset of their movies, right, suppose there's a particular user and he might say that they did not this movie at all. they gave it rating one, but then they liked this movie a lot, which is they rated as five. okay, maybe I won't draw the circles. okay, one, five, but you know a user typically doesn't rate. you know all the movies, right, they can't even watch all the movies, clearly, right, and they may not also rate all the movies that they watched. okay, you can maybe get an implicit feel for that, but there'll be many US movies where we don't know their rating. okay, maybe another user really liked this movie that this other user hated, they also this movie, and maybe this user is a little bit the first user where they did not this movie and this movie and on. okay, there are many ratings okay over here, and the question is, suppose there is a particular user movie pair, what is its rating? yes, it's easy if this user has already rated this particular movie, but otherwise you have to try to infer if these missing vales and the goal of you know, a recommender system might be to increase engagement on their platform. they, they want to recommend movies that you know you might. they want to recommend movies where the prediction, let's say, is above four or 4.5. okay, we have ratings Matrix, sorry, rate ratings Matrix, and let me denote that by R. okay, and I have this Matrix now, which is r. notice that it's going to be very sparse. okay, if you think about all possible user movie pairs. it's m time n, but a typical user might only rate, you know, tens of movies, or hundreds of movies, or maybe even thousand if they really rating right, but the number of movies might be, you know, in the millions. this Matrix is going to be extremely sparse. okay, with many, and when I say spars, that means there are many, many missing values. okay, 99% or more of this m Matrix may be missing values. the goal over here: okay, the goal okay, and now you can start seeing parallels with the regression problem that we've talked about. far okay is that we are given ratings. okay, we want to predict the missing values and these would be the actual recommendations. that's the problem that we will be looking at. okay, predict any kind of arbitrary missing value in real life situation. what you really want is you want to predict the top k, right, maybe the top 10 or top 20 movies that a new, that a particular user might, that they have not seen. okay, that problem is similar but slightly different, because you don't care whether a user is going to rate a movie 1.5 versus 1.7. right, because they don't those movies. you would never really surface them. okay, but now let's look at it. any thoughts about how you- you know this. this is a classical recommendation problem. many thoughts on how you might end up solving this problem. how do you guys, you know, try to figure out what movies to watch on Netflix? I guess Netflix already gives a recommendation, right, but how would you think about solving this problem? suppose you are only given this particular Matrix? oh, there's something on the chat. let me sorry. okay, soop said: find users who are similar to others and then fill in the ratings based on the users, other users, average ratings, great, right, you know, some of the initial first work on collaborative filtering was based on this KNN kind of approach, K being K&N being K nearest neighbors, right. you find out neighbors, right who are similar to you and then you use their ratings to infer these ratings. that is, you know, a fine method and today we will look at. you know, if you, if you, if we later on look at it, we'll see that it has certain similarities, but it's a little bit more of a global method. okay, let me just put what rishop kind of suggested right, initial methods, and these were some of the methods that were used in the- I want to say late 1990s, right, when Amazon, for example, was coming up. and if you look, there are certain papers on recommendation systems over. you know how to recommend items to users who you know may have already bought something. okay, the idea is you look at neighbors of a user- and when I say neighbors I mean people who have similar ratings. I guess today, when you buy something from Amazon, it shows you a list of you know people that buy this also buy those, right, and those have. you know, the kinds of methods that I'm talking about are used over there. does that? does that? was there a question, hormos? or you were just Mak. no, I'm just, I'm just going with that. you know, method that yeah mentioned. you know, and you mentioned that Amazon was using it and said, and oh yeah, still see that they're using something similar, oh yeah, and it's a Big Driver of of their products. right, because it basically comes up to how people discover, maybe, things which are new to them, they might not have seen before, or things which you know have high ratings or people have liked. okay, yes, definitely. I did not mean to say that you know they were using them and they don't use them, but I just meant to say that they were, you know, one of the first companies that needed those recommendations, right at a large scale. okay, what we will study is: you know, I talked about Matrix completion or Matrix factorization, and this is the problem. by the way, you are getting in your homework, right, we are giving you a data set and you will basically implement this procedure and you'll see that there are some subtleties that will come up when you try to implement it. okay, here is the Matrix R. okay, suppose it has. you know, I throw- and this is the J column. remember this Matrix which is users by movies, M of users and N Movies. okay, this is the Matrix R, and suppose you know, if I look at the J movie, suppose it has been rated by a few users, and suppose I look at the IAT user and theyve rated some movies, and what I would to find out is what is this value? okay, and that is R. okay, and RJ, might the I user might not have rated the J mod. the model that we use, the model that was quite successful in this competition, right, the winning team used that as one of the components- was the following: right, that I'm going to represent it. the idea is kind of similar to the singular value decomposition, but there'll be differences that I'll talk about that. I'm going to say that I'm going to factor this as u, m transpose, okay, and this Matrix U is M by k, k by n, okay, and the model is the following: right, and K is typically going to be much smaller than MN, much smaller than Min of MN. okay, and the model is that, if I, if I- I just said that there is a approximate sign over here, approximate equality, what you're doing is you're saying that, if I look at this overall ratings Matrix, I can Factor it and that there are latent factors- that K latent factors- and I can Factor it as a product of the user Matrix and a movie Matrix and, in particular, a rating r j is going to be given by the product of the I row of U- let's call it UI transpose- and the jth column, which is MJ transpose. my model is the following: that r j is again let's. it's a simple model, right? I'm not saying that this is exactly what different places use currently, but it's, it's, but it was quite, quite successful. I don't want to say that it is very, very simp, simp, listic. okay, it is UI transpose. time MJ. okay, and you should convince yourself that U of M transpose is a rank K Matrix. okay, that's the model. that's that R is approximately equal to U transpose. okay, and let me just kind of- I've already written it, but you know this was I row J, column of M. okay, row I of U is UI transpose. okay, you can think of it as it is a low dimensional representation of the I us, low dimensional, and what is it? k k dimensional representation of user I. okay, similarly, if I look at this, is M transpose, M transpose. I can say that row J of Matrix m m is MJ transpose. okay, and this is the low dimensional J column. what's that? the J? R of the J column of the mend? no, no, remember that. I just keep in mind the notation I'm using. this is m transpose. and over here I said row J of M. yeah, is that clear, hermus? yes, yes, thank you, yeah, yeah, I'm just yeah, but it is exactly this. you know, this particular column of M transpose, right, row J of M is the same as column J of M transpose. okay, and in particular, I said: if I look at columns, prob. I call Columns of U Columns of M. if I look at Columns of U, right, these you can think of as the different latent factors, right, and that is feet you can think of. these are some features, some extracted features, okay, for users, okay, and these are ladent factors, features. movies, you know, and if I remember, you know there are. this, you know it's not just for Netflix, but I believe it was also used for dating websites. I think e-harmony even used to advertise that they had a 30 dimensional representation that they could build. they did not say that in exactly these terms in their commercial, but they would say that, you know, they basically extract out 30 factors for making sure that the people they matched up with were compatible with each other. okay, another example where you have, you know, in some sense, matchmaking. you're trying to match users and movies or pairs of people together. okay. now the question, of course, is that this is the model. how do you find the uis and the MJS? okay, remember that I have that r, i, j. i want to be approximately equal to UI, transpose MJ. any thoughts on how I would find U's and M's? I'm given the RS, but remember, this Matrix is spse. these matrices are going to be dense, right, and, given this, not all the information I have, there may be lots and lots of users there, lots and lots of movies from from that. I want to get this. it sounds a partial SVD, right, you know, this is a low rank Matrix. we talked about the KY truncated SVD. it sounds related to an SVD, right, and one of the things that the SVD does is it uses- you know the squared loss, right, or the square, you know Le squares, the loss that comes up in Le squares- regression, right, we could, and that's a natural thing to do is that we look at a loss function, which is the quadratic loss, squared loss. when I say that RI J is nearly UI, transpose MJ, then I can say that you know, let me look at this and somehow, you know, I can sumish some overall IG, J and then I can try to minimize this over all the U's. now, how many U's are there? U1, U2 to u, m. there are M users, and then I have movies: M1, M2, M. oh, is the solution? is it just given by? because I can write this as in Matrix notation: no need for the sum, right, we learned about Norms, right? I? I can write this as R minus u, m transpose fromus Norm square. is that correct? yes, Al, do I just? then, can I just use the SVD then to solve it because, remember, I want to minimize over U and M? yeah, but what do we put for the missing values? do we just put zero in there? aha, right, that's the, the critical difference or importance. okay, that this objective. thank you, Hermos. yeah, that's exactly the point that this J is not over all M and N. if I knew all r, j, from IAL to 1 to M or Jal to 1 to M, which is that all users have red, all the movies and on right, which is of course unrealistic. then this problem would be solved by the SVD. but that's not the given problem. the problem is that you only know certain indices. let me say that K is the set of all known ratings. okay, K is all the pairs, i, j, such that r, j is known, and I'm trying to fit the training data, the model, to the training data. this is over all pairs that are known. this is what is the very the important difference, right, which makes this problem very different than the traditional singular value, DEC composition problem. this is our objective. okay, and I can write this in Matrix form as follows: that I can write this as: w, elementwise dot, where this is the, this Matrix, W, J. this Matrix W has entries W, J, which is one, if I belongs to K and remember, K is the known ratings or is zero, and Dot is the element wise product. okay, and that's also has the name called hardart prod. okay, is that? is it clear? far what I've talked about? any questions, this is our model transpose and I'm trying to fit it to the training data and the training data is exactly this i, j belong to. okay, and then you know we've talked a little bit about regularization, right, typically we do want to see regularization and- and you'll see as you do the homework, that regularization is very important also, right, the regularization we'll do is Ridge regularization and that is: is+ Lambda summation of UI squ I is 1 through M plus- oh sorry, plus Lambda summation I = 1 through n MJ s. okay, and I can write that as Lambda U forus, nor square plus Lambda M. okay, this is adding: sorry, do we use same Lambda for U and M? you could. you could try different lambdas too. that that that you know you could do experiments with. I forget in the homework whether we have same lambdas or different lambdas. in the homework we've given you the same lambdas. I think when people tried it it did not make too much difference whether they use the same lambdas or not. okay, you could also end up using, you know, different sets of lambdas, right? users who had red more movies versus users who had rated less movies. but right now we'll just assume that the Lambda is the same. does that answer your question? yes, thank you, yeah, okay, okay, now remember that. that you know if my problem, right, if K is the set of all IJ. okay, then the problem would be of the following form: summation of I = 1 through M. summation of J = 1 through n, r, i, j minus UI. transpose MJ, Square, okay, and again, minimize over U's and M and that would be equ equivalent to minimize u m, r minus u m. transpose okay, and the solution would be given by the K truncated: yes, we, okay. but as I have said that and let me just write it to reinforce it, right, but in our case we only know readings that belong to a subset of all possible pairs, right, i j that belongs to a given K. again, to emphasize, we do not know r, r, i, j for all. I, okay, I, 1 to M and J is 1 to okay. we cannot use the procedure to compute the SVD. now, that's another also thing that we haven't really studied is: how do you given a matrix, how do you compute it? SVD? it's not trivial, right, but we know that you open up python or you open up numpy, right, you will find a procedure to find the SVD, but we cannot use that. any thoughts on how we might go about solving this problem? we need to solve this problem. over here. I kind of given you a little bit of a hint. I've talked a little bit about regularization. I've mentioned regression. to you does this look a regression problem? it is, and should be, solvable with some gradient based method thing. yeah, yeah, remember what are the variables that we are solving for it's U and M. okay, there's something that we can do. we can use a procedure called alternating minimization. okay, and what this procedure does is the following: right, it first does fix. it starts with some U. maybe I should just say that, okay, start with Su, U as a guess. okay, now, given this U, right, fix you and compute. and okay, now, think a little bit about this. right, suppose I'm given a u and I'm trying to do this problem right, and what you can do is you can look at only one column of R, right, then you'll have the, the ith column or the. let's say, the jth column of R is equal to you know, you have fixed U and the jth column of M transpose n, Square. okay, and of course, there's a regularization also. but my question is: can you solve that problem? fix youu? yeah, that's a. that's a normal regression problem, right, that's Le squ regression. that's exactly what we've studied. far, right, we let me come to that. but the algorithm is going to be this: right, start with some U, fix U and compute M. right, and then fix M and compute U, okay, and repeat, let's suppose, capital K times: okay, you would start with some U, not, you would get M1 from it. then you fix M1, you get U1 from It, You Fix U1, you get M2 from it, you get U2 and on, okay, and remember what Mi would be. Mi would be obtained by a procedure where I'm minimizing over m r minus U. let's see IUS one, yes, time M transpose from minus Norm squar. okay, plus Lambda, I have this regularization also. okay, I'll be solving this problem. and mi, mi would be the minimizer or argument of this point. okay, and similarly, UI would be the AR men over u, r minus u m. I transpose vus square plus Lambda U squ. okay, let's, let's- and let's look at detail, at what happens. okay, let's fix. well, if I have R is nearly equal to u m transpose. let me flip this around: R transpose is nearly equal to Mu U transpose, because, let's see, I think I'll just fix M first and then compute U. okay, I guess. I guess I could do either one of, okay, but right now, suppose we fix M. the other case would be very analogous. you would just be working with the transposes. okay, let me just draw this out. this. this would be the Matrix R transpose. okay, R transpose is number of movies by the number of users, and I want this to be equal to M, which is n by K. this is the Matrix M and U transpose. okay, and this is M. okay. and let's look at this: is I, user Factor UI? okay, and what I'm saying is that I want to look at the ayat column over here. I have column, let me call that as r i. I have r. i is nearly equal to M * UI. is that clear? okay, r i is the I column of R transpose. okay, what I can try to do is r i - M * UI Square. okay, plus, if I add regularization, remember now, this is our coefficients W, this is my Matrix X and this is y. okay, Y is replaced by RI, X is replaced by m and this is our coefficient W. okay, I have this and I want to try to find out the minimum over UI. is this the problem we want to solve? this looks exactly a r regression problem and then I can basically solve it for any ey, right? what is the mistake that I made? remember ra, is the entire ayat column? do we know the entire I column? no, we, we don't. right, that's the double you thing in there. we only know certain elements, okay, in particular [Music]. in particular, if the you know we have what M users and N movies. if this particular user has only rated a few movies, right, then you know, we don't know that entire column. this is kind of incorrect, okay, what we do need to know is we need to concentrate only on these values. these are the Y values that I know. okay, what we will say is that we'll look at the index set and I'll call it I, I, not the best notation, but I subscript. I represents indices of movies rated by user I. okay, and now let's look at what. what the correct objective is? right, let me denote by r i subscript r i as these values vales, these values over here. this, this, this, suppose II is just these three pairs, then this would be a vector of length three. okay, and remember that this is now going to pick out exactly exactly the corresponding rows of some particular subset of the Matrix M. it won't be the entire Matrix M. right, it'll be a subset of the Matrix M. okay, let me call that as M of I, I. okay, there will only be three rows of the corresponding Matrix. okay, for example, if I have these threes, this will be one, this will be two and this will be three. okay, if I put these over here and assemble them into this Matrix, this will be m, right, okay. similarly, if I assemble it over [Music] here, okay, then this is our I and this will be okay, will be three rows. if I I is of size three and I have Mi times UI and I still have that regularization, okay, and you know, I can just put a half over here and that is my objective. okay, and let me call this objective as ji and I basically need to minimize this over you. any questions? excuse me, how do we decide the dimensionality of the latent space, the K, here? that's something that you know we can just experiment with, but you can start off with 1K and you can just try different KS and see. typically, in machine learning, what happen is that you will be given a training set and then there is a held out test set. okay, you can basically try different values of R and see how they perform on the test set, and typically you also divided into training set, validation set and test set, right, and you basically then try to find out the K or the rank that you know gives you the best performance. clearly, too low a rank would be not good enough, it won't fit the data, it's kind of that. you know the curve that we showed, right, that if you have twoo low then you'll be underfitting. you have twoo high, you'll be overfitting and there'll be a some sweet spot. okay, and you would. you would do the same for other other hyper parameters such as Lambda also. right, okay, was there another question? okay, and then this is my objective and now I can. you know this is basically a r regression problem. okay, and this is a regression problem where n capital, N that we talked about in regression, is just three. okay, it'll give you some really interesting cases where, you know, when we talked about regression, you know there was the dimensionality and there was the number of observations, d and n. right, typically in regression problems, we assume that the number of measurements, which is n, is, you know, greater than D or much greater than D, and here you'll see that there will be sometimes when, especially in the Netflix data that you know, some users only rated a couple of movies, some movies were only rated by a couple of users. you get the other case also where the number of measurements is much smaller than the dimensionality right. dimensionality is fixed at K. okay, you will run across these issues when you kind of try to solve the problem right, and you know I'll just- I'm just rederiving it, right, but you can, you know, solve this problem as a regression problem, where we take the partial derivative with respect to UI, right, and what you will get is, you know this, RI minus Mi UI, right, you'll basically just get the residual, which is r i i i minus m i UI. right, the half will cancel with the two, right, and then then you'll get a minus m i i. okay, this is basically just the analogous to the normal equations. okay, when I set this to be equal to zero, that implies that you have M of I transpose, M of I. okay, this should have been a transpose, I guess. okay, plus Lambda I UI is equal to M I transpose times r i. okay. and one thing to not is that this will be a k by K Matrix, nothing to do with M or n. okay, this will be K time, my I Matrix and this will be our size. okay, and suppose now I have that the size of I I is equal to ni. okay, what is the amount of computation which was involved? okay, let me try to do this quickly. Mii is I, I by K, which is NI, I, my K. I have to first form this Matrix. okay, and I'm doing this because you'll have this problem right, you'll, for your homework, you'll need to do these computations. forming this Matrix will require it's, you know, basically multiplication of two rectangular matrices. okay, and this will be k s * ni operations. solving the linear system. it's a k byk linear system, K by K linear system. okay, you want you'll probably use some routine, right, but it'll take order Cube, K Cube operations, okay, and the total complexity, okay, of finding U from Mi, okay, is going to be equal to order k s. summation of n i over I, okay, and that is equal to kind of number of ratings. summation of Ni is basically the total number of ratings in The Matrix, times x Square, K Square, maybe I should not times K squ plus, I have this part right- M, K Cube, and that needs to be solved: M, MK times K, Cube do. okay, this is the method of alternating these squares, alternating minimization. but the minimization problem is these squares at at every step. okay, and in some sense it is a little expensive. okay, because you have computation being cubic in K. okay, and you can have other alternatives to solve this, and we'll see some of these methods later. okay, one is going to be a method that we will talk about quite a bit later on, which is stochastic gradient descent. okay, print STD. then we can also use other methods, coordinate descent and on. okay, but you'll see that this problem exposes different aspects of rid regression that we have talked about. okay, and you will see that, for example, you will not be able to do it without R regularization. you just will get an error when you try to do right, because the Matrix might be too small or a particular matrices that you get might not be invertable. any questions, if we could use SVD, it we just multiply the W by R and then factorize it. sorry, but but you cannot use the SVD right, because, yeah, I'm just, I'm just saying let's, let's suppose that we could use SVD, then it would be factorizing the, The hardart Matrix, times the, the r? yeah, I mean, I guess what you're saying is that can I just take WR right? which means that on the position that you don't know any ratings, you replace them by zeros? right, yes, that no people have done that, and that's a good point. people have used that to try to initialize this iteration. come up with the U1 or M1 or something, right? yeah, exactly exactly. and the? the issue is that you know SVD is a pretty complicated u? u computation which is kind of expensive, right, and many times what ends up happening is that you know you want to do this over millions or even billions of users and millions or 100 million movies, and then it just becomes computationally intractable to do the SVD. yeah, yeah, makes sense, yeah, okay, any other questions on this? okay, I'm going to stop a little bit early and I've mentioned a couple of times that we will give you your. your first homework is being given out today and it'll be due next Friday.