Okay, just couple of reminders. you know, last time we had a good discussion about the course And I also told you that the course is changing gears right now. we talked about the different projects. let me kind of just repeat that. go through it pretty quickly again. Okay, you should be able to share the screen. remember, the projects are going to be due towards the end of this semester. We do want you to choose your projects pretty quickly. The recommended size of each project is 4.. We have given various suggestions over here and then you know, some of you have approached me. A couple of you have approached me about some different projects and you know I'm open to that. But really I would want to kind of discourage, You know, solo projects, One person projects. 4 is the ideal size. 3 to 4 would be would be great. Okay. And in terms of the actual projects, we are kind of again now moving towards, you know, kind of bordering on research in Ml and in particular Llms. right, one would be exploring and interpreting attention patterns When you, for example, have long context. right here is kind of overview objectives of the project. We've given kind of ideas about specific potential methodology. This is a project that is of interest to us. It's of interest to Nilesh in particular. you can get some guidance on how to proceed for the project. you know, talking to us, Okay, The second also is of interest to us, But it's more geared towards, you know, for example, the course material that we have. Right, I upload videos, we upload lecture notes. Sometimes there are questions on lecture notes. Right, Could you build a system, a retrieval, augmented generation system, that can answer questions about the course? You know it was interesting that many of you in the feedback you were kind of requesting some additional information. right, you were basically in. all that was was geared towards you trying to understand the material better, right, Whether it be through examples, whether it be through pointers to you know, the relevant textbook chapters or sections and on. And I'm pretty sure that one of the places where these Llms are going to make a big, big impact is in the area of education. for example, if I just upload the, you have the videos, you have the lecture notes. can you build a system that will answer questions? right, Some of the questions you can put in the questions that you have, for example, from Ed, and see if it can answer some of these questions. that's kind of what this project would be geared towards doing. right, Again, there are potential objectives, methodologies, and on The 3rd one is more geared towards, you know, a particular kind of language and a code for coding, in particular for C plus plus, basically trying to develop better tokenization strategies. Again, you know objectives, methodologies And, of course, an overview earlier on. okay, and then the final one that we are suggesting is to develop, design and implement evaluation metrics for kind of assessing hallucinations, And you can, for example, even combine or you can test it out on Project 2, right where you're developing the course, you know you might be generating answers and we will end up finding out whether some of these answers are incorrect or not, But of course this is for General Llm generated text. Okay, these are the potential objectives, These are the potential methodologies, And then there is more material. you know- I just kind of wanted to recap it very quickly, just reminding you that we expect you to choose these projects pretty quickly. And then there's a homework, which is homework 3, which is due at the end of next week, which basically asks you to provide the teams and do a little bit of preliminary work, such as a literature survey, and outline the techniques and plan that you want to have for completing your project on time. I know there's quite a lot to do in in all this and I hope that you've started thinking about what project you want to do and what teams you want to have. I did see some emails in in Ed. Did you have anything more that you wanted to discuss over here or ask? should I take it that things are going well and that you are well on your way to deciding What project you want and the partners? total silence today. Come on guys. Yeah, I think we're, we're, we're, I'm, I'm doing fine. Yeah, Okay, good, Good, Okay, I'm just taking it that you know things are well underway and that most of you are in the process of choosing a project and choosing partners. But let me you know one of the reasons I'm kind of asking you This is because you know if you need any help from any of us and kind of you know either assembling teams or doing something else. You know we are happy to Nilash and I are happy to help, Okay, okay, any other questions not necessarily related to the project? Okay, then let's start with today's material. Okay, today we will talk about various optimization strategies. Okay, I, I think you can all see the. okay, can everybody see the? the slides? Yes, sir, Yes, Okay, yeah, well, okay, okay, let's talk a little bit about you know the different optimization methods that are used in training deep neural networks. Of course they have applications to Llm Pre Training and on, but also just in general training any kind of deep neural networks. the first st. you know everything is kind of based upon stochastic gradient descent that you already have seen in class And today we will kind of Take a slightly deeper dive. You know many of these things are currently still under investigation and they are still kind of being worked on. For example, you know optimization methods for training very large neural networks, for training Llms. there can be some very active Twitter discussions about what methods are are good. Okay, coming back to you know the empirical risk minimization framework that we've been using. far right is: you typically have a linear model, And the thing to note about the linear model, or you know in general some objective, is that you know, when you have a linear model, typically you will have a loss with respect to the true label right, and this loss is then averaged over all the training points. the training points here are indexed as Xn, comma, Yn, right, this is, you know it has this form where you have an average over all the training points and training points And then you have basically loss for each of the training data. Okay, you can have either a linear model over here, Right, W transpose X, or you can have a more general nonlinear, potentially nonlinear hypothesis H, Which is a function of the parameter that you want to find, the model that you want to find, LH Of W, For example, in in regression, right, We've seen that the loss function that we use is squared loss. you know, in various cases where you have, You can have different kinds of losses depending upon things: Kl, divergence, relative entropy or cross entropy. Okay, and you know Sometimes you know this kind of was always the supervised learning paradigm in machine learning, that yn are the given labels from Xn. and what is really interesting these days, in the last whatever 10 years, or that there is this notion of kind of self-supervised learning. it's not that you are explicitly given yn, right, But you somehow the Yn Is an implicit task that you are given from unsupervised data. sometimes you will look at, You will hear about these Llms and hear that they are kind of unsupervised learning or self supervised learning, because the decoder Llms that are being that are coming up, basically just generate the try to predict the next word given the previous words, in case that this is a causal Llm, and there what you basically have is that you have a current sentence, right, you, that could be Xn, the current part of the sentence, and then Yn would correspond to the next word. you know, one of the limiting things about supervised machine learning was always like: where do you get the labels for? Where do you get the label data? right? a lot of human labeling things, mechanical, Turk and on spun up, But I think one of the big, big reasons why Llms are able to encapsulate A lot of the knowledge in the world is that you essentially get these labels kind of for implicitly or for free, Right, that's one of the big advances I think we've had In being able to harness all the data that is over there to you know, basically create these huge models. you know, at the back of your mind you can think about these. these could be basically small models from you know doing very some small statistical studies, or on to very large Llms. right, the ones that are being released now are where W Is in the you know billions, if not hundreds of billions of parameters. Right, the one of the tip you know 1st methods that you learn of when you do Numerical optimization is gradient descent. gradient descent takes the parameters and takes the gradient of F, right, And if you then look over here, then the gradient of F will basically go to each of the points within the sum and it'll end up being the average of the gradient of the losses with respect to W. And then there is a step size. you know this particular, you know this subtraction or this. taking the multiple of this and updating the W vector is not that computationally expensive. But the biggest competition now is in computing the gradient. Okay, And if you look at over it over here, then this, since F Of W Depends only on, you can write it as one by N Times, Fn, W, Where Fn basically corresponds to this particular loss. But the thing to note is that each of the fns depends only on the corresponding training data: Xn, comma y. the gradient, like I said, is now also can be written as an average of the grade, the gradients for each of the training data. But of course, if you just apply vanilla gradient descent, you no need to go through all the training samples just to do one step. Okay, obviously it'll be very slow when you have, you know, millions of samples, or even like, if you think about how these Llms are being trained, They have trillions of tokens, Right? let's suppose there are trillions of sentences over there, right? or then, of course, there is the other parts, which are audio as well as video: lots and lots of data. there is really no way that you can now, in this setting, compute the average of the gradient. It's just going to be too expensive. Okay, then you can ask yourselves the question that look, Finally, you are interested in computing gradient of the function at this point. Okay, can I basically find the approximate gradient? instead of going through each of these points and summing them up and taking the average, right, I want to find the approximate gradient, And one simple thing that one can do- and this is what is used in stochastic gradient descent- is the notion of stochastic sampling, Right? what you can do is you can basically, instead of taking all your data right, All your training data, you can sample a small subset of this training data, right? And then you can estimate the gradient by taking the sample mean of the gradients over this small subset, right, you're basically now, you know, doing the same thing as above. this is the true quantity that you want to get, And what you say is that, Well, I will look at the average, But over a smaller sample of the data, right, B is the batch and the modulus of B refers to the size of the batch, and one extreme end could be that you take B to be equal to one. that means you sample one training data at a time. But if you take this idea right, This is the idea behind stochastic gradient descent- Okay, just a reminder, The training data is all of the X and Yn pairs. Okay, you can initialize W in some way. This is the parameters. And then you basically do take multiple rounds and each round T, you sample a small batch B, okay, And then you will update the parameter. Okay, and I've given this over over here. One thing that you will notice is that here there is an eta which depends upon T. T is a superscript over here, Okay, not a power right, But a superscript over here. that suggests that the train, the, the learning, learning rate, changes with the steps, in particular, if we look over here. right, We just had Ada over here. Okay, there was no index Right here we've added an Eta T and we'll see that that is very, very important, Okay, Now you know. I said you know there is an extreme case of B, equal to just a single training data. And if you think about it, right, The, the perceptron right was an example of an algorithm where you were looking at one training data, except there was no clear loss function over there, Right. So, But you can modify the, you know, if you're looking for an Svm, you can modify to get a loss function And then you can carry out a perceptron algorithm And it can have better properties. and as an example, right, You can do this for logistic regression, right, If you remember the logistic regression case, If we do kind of maximum likelihood, then we get the objective to be this particular value over here, right, each of these log of one plus E to the power, minus yn, W, transpose Xn, is basically an Fnw right. This is still a linear function, right? But now the loss is not the square loss But it is the logistic loss, Okay, And then if you instantiate Sgd or stochastic gradient descent for logistic regression, you have the same steps as before over here, right, Except now we have a concrete F right And we can take the gradient. Okay, you look at this over here and you look at the gradient and the gradient will be. You know, there's a log function over here. it'll be one divided by the quantity in brackets, right, that's exactly what is happening over here, right, And if you apply the chain rule, then you'll see that it'll be, oh, as given over here. Okay, for okay, let's see Why does stochastic gradient descent work? I've kind of given you some idea, right, Which is that you're getting an estimator of the full gradient and what you can show is that it's an unbiased estimator. So, in particular, the expectation over all the samples that you end up taking right of the, this gradient estimate, The stochastic gradient estimate, is equal to the full gradient. Okay, you can think of each iteration that you have the actual gradient right And you have some noise, And since it's an unbiased estimator, this noise has 0 mean. okay, And that's why the X, The expectation of this, will be expectation of the gradient, which is constant right, plus expectation of the noise, And since this is 0 mean, you get. you get that This is an unbiased estimator And you can look at gradient descent or stochastic gradient descent, as you are updating with gradient plus a 0 mean noise. Okay, now let's think a little bit about step size. right before I said that if you look over here in gradient descent, you know you can choose step size to be a constant. okay, And why can you choose it to be a constant? Well, you know this is a typically F is going to be some convex loss, right, And we want to find the minimum right, in particular For- except, for example, for convex losses, to get the minimum, let's say for logistic regression, this gradient will be 0 at the global optimum. Okay, that means that at the optimal, if you are at the optimal, gradient descent will lead to no change in W, right, Because the gradient itself of the function is exactly 0. Okay, But of course, if you think about it, right, The fact that this sum at a particular W is 0 does not mean that each of the individual components is going to be 0. It's not going to be true that each of the individual components is going to be 0. Okay. as a result, when you do stochastic gradient descent, Okay, you cannot use a fixed step size because it cannot converge to a global or even a local optimizer where the gradient equal to 0, right. in particular, I'm now going to repeat what I kind of just said, that if W Star is the minimizer right- Suppose this is a convex loss right- Then the gradient of W Star F Gradient of F at W Star is going to be 0. But if B is a strict subset, not the entire training data, then there is no reason for this to be exactly equal to 0.. even if we have the minimizer, even if we are at the minimizer, Std Will move away from it. you don't want to keep a step constant step size And what you should do is that you should decrease the step size to 0. So as T increases, the step size should go to 0.. Now there are various ways of trying to decay the learning rate Right. sometimes it is done with a polynomial rate, sometimes it is done with a step decay. So, for example, here is a figure on the Y. on the X-axis is what's called epoch, which just means how many times you are going over the training data. right. Epoch one- You go through all the training data, right- Doesn't need to remember that it's not a gradient descent step. We can have multiple stochastic gradient descent steps within an epoch, right. But the new epoch is one where you start repeating the training data. Okay, here you basically are going through the training data about 200 times, right, And you can see that in this particular schedule you are decaying the learning rate down to 0 in steps. you basically keep it constant for a number of epochs and then you drop it by a little bit, Okay. Then there are other learning rates, There's something called cosine or cyclic learning rate schedules Where you can go down, you can go up. Sometimes you keep this peak to be the same. In other cases you can take the maximum lr and kind of halve it at every one of these cycles, Right, Because you never know when you want to kind of stop. this is still a very active, actively research as well. as you know, from the practitioner point of view, there are various schedules that people have found that work well for a particular architectures and on, and many times you will now see in research papers or even blog articles and on that people will specify: You know what is the learning rate schedule they use, what strategy they use and what ended up working well. and many of it is kind of the result of experimentation And not all of it is explainable or, you know, done by, by theory, although there are some recently, you know, good papers and kind of methods that try to do schedule free optimization, where you know the you try to figure out a schedule in the program itself and they they work well but not as well, I think, as other learning schedules we've. we've now discussed stochastic gradient descent, right, And if I contrast it with gradient descent, the pros are that you know it is cheaper competition per iteration Generally, you see, faster convergence in the beginning, right, cheaper computation is obvious, right, Because you're now only going through a small number of data points. Typically they- And I said they're faster than the cons is, you know it's less stable- slower final convergence And we've talked a little bit about the step size and it can be hard to tune the step size. this figure is taken from this particular kind of blog article, right, And it shows the trajectory of Oh, batch, gradient descent, Mini batch gradient descent and stochastic gradient descent. I think stochastic gradient descent, I think the batch size is one in this particular example. you can see over here that you know you end up going to the Global Optimal in Mini batch, you. It's a little bit of a wavering thing over here, And in stochastic gradient descent it goes this: That's the trajectory, One of the things a colleague of mine has always complained- that stochastic gradient descend. The name of the method itself is incorrect. can anybody hypothesize why they're saying that stochastic gradient descent might be even an incorrect name? One of the properties actually that batch gradient descent has that you can show that the loss decreases monotonically. you're always decreasing the loss, Okay. So, for example, you know I I think I showed you level sets for linear regression, Right? these level sets are basically contours of constant f values. Again, you're trying to minimize F and this point over here is, if it's a convex loss, it is basically the global minimizer, where F is minimized and gradient of F is 0. you're always moving from an outer curve to an inner curve, outer curve to inner curve, And that means that F is decreasing, because you can just think of this as kind of like you know, if you visualize in 3D, You can think of these, as you know this, as a a ball shaped surface, not necessarily cylindrical And, yeah, not necessarily that Each of these contours is a circle, but each of them is an ellipse. And now you are basically cutting at different Y values, right, the Y value being the value of the F function. Okay, that means that an outer curve is a larger value of the loss or of F, inner curve is a smaller value. over here, gradient descent, you can show, is going to be a monotonic. that's why the name gradient descent. you're descending on F. every step is guaranteed to decrease the value of F. Okay, And then you can see, over here, stochastic gradient does not decrease the loss at every step. It's not guaranteed to can increase the loss Sometimes. this is what's happening over here. You're going from an inner level set to an outer level set. Okay, my friend's colleagues peev- This is Steve Wright from Wisconsin, and his peev is that it should be called stochastic gradient method. It's not a descent method. Okay, But I think he's lost the battle because everybody calls it stochastic gradient descent. People have been too used to calling it stochastic gradient descent. Okay, any questions far, yeah, we call a partial gradient descent because, based on the gradient that it calculates is trying to descend. But that's not the whole gradient. It's, Yeah, but that is captured by the stochastic part, right? stochastic saying that, you know, it's basically an estimate of the, the gradient. it is kind of gradient plus noise and the noise is 0 mean, Right, that part, I think, is captured. I think what he was saying is that it's you know it's not a descent method. he's like, if you look at his slides and on He's done a lot of work on stochastic gradient, He'll call it Sgm instead of Sgd. stochastic gradient method. Interesting, Yes, yeah, But you know, it's 1 of those things where people start, you know, you get a name And even though the name is kind of incorrect, It kind of sticks right. I'm sure that you can come up with millions of or many examples throughout history of such things. Right, I'm talking only about a particular method, But you know, in life also, Right, Any questions far? Okay, let's move on to see how you can kind of try to improve stochastic gradient descent. stochastic gradient descent, as we saw, takes Wt Plus one wt. actually, let's 1st contrast gradient descent and see how we can improve it. Okay, gradient descent has this update: Right, Wt plus one is equal to Wt Minus alpha of gradient of F of TF at W of T. right now there is this other method which uses momentum, something called momentum, which tries to not use just the gradient of F at Wt But uses previous points, also the gradient of the previous points. Okay, suppose you I want to take an average Right. one way of doing it is you know where you end up- Taking an exponentially moving average- is to do the following: you maintain a momentum Vector, Vt. think of B Beta as some value between 0 and one. at one extreme it can be 0, right, And you take a convex combination of the gradient and the old value of Vt minus one. Okay, let's look at it in a particular case. Right, What if beta is exactly 0.. Beta is 0. This is 0. This is just the gradient of F, and this is just the gradient of F. it includes gradient descent. as a special case, when Beta equal to 0, you get gradient descent. When Beta is not equal to 0, you can kind of start expanding it. right, there is a kind of a recursion over here, Recurrence over here. right, Vt Is equal to Beta, vt Minus one. I can write it as Vt equals one minus beta. gradient of F. By the way, you can see the cursor, right that when I highlight You can see the highlighted, the highlight. We don't see the cursor, but the highlight We can see. Okay. okay, you don't see the cursor, But you see the highlight? Okay, Good then, actually I should try to highlight it. Sometimes I forget and I just hover over it. right, you can see that this is Vt, is one minus beta. that's exactly the same term over here, right? And then I have beta. This is this Beta, and then I have vt minus one. I can now expand Vt Minus one because vt Minus one is beta, vt Minus 2 plus one minus beta gradient of F, But not at Wt, But at the previous iterate Wt Minus one. you end up getting You know this Vt minus one is basically one minus beta F of Wt minus one. Okay, plus beta square times vt minus 2 beta square. And then you keep on expanding. Okay, you can see that, You know I can take one minus beta outside. And if I take one minus beta outside, What I will get is gradient of F At Wt Plus beta times gradient of F At Wt Minus one, plus beta square times Gradient of F at Wt minus 2.. it is geometrically declining. That's why it's called exponential moving average. it's an average, But it's an exponentially moving average, Right, if Beta, for example, you know, is something half, then it'll decline actually very quickly. Okay, because it's Beta Beta square. the smaller the Beta, the more quickly it will decline And, in particular, if Beta equal to 0, then you don't get anything from the previous steps. Okay, that's kind of the idea behind momentum. instead of just using the current the, the gradient at the current iterate, you also use the gradient at the previous iterates. Okay, that is the idea behind momentum. And remember, right now we are still talking about kind of gradient descent versus momentum based gradient descent. Okay, this is momentum gradient descent. Okay, is you do Vt? just, I said Vt equal to beta times, vt Minus one plus one minus beta gradient of F at Wt. okay, again, right now, since we are doing gradient descent, we can afford to use a constant learning rate. And then Beta is sometimes called kind of the discount factor, right, And I said particularly, Beta equal to 0 means that there's really there's no momentum, It's just the gradient being used. But we said you know can't really use gradient descent or momentum gradient descent for large data sets And if you're optimizing the sum of these, you know typically losses, Right, Then you can basically take the stochastic gradient descent and get a momentum version of that method. Again, that's not hard, Right, All you need to do is you iterate over the steps. at each step you sample. this is taking exactly 1 point. Okay, you, you take 1 point and you update your momentum and then you take a step in the direction of that momentum. This should be alpha, you know, T, Since the learning rate needs to decrease. Okay, then there is another notion which is: hey, You know, I take always the gradient at Wt. Can I take a gradient at some other point? Okay, that is what is sometimes called nester of accelerated gradient. Okay, And the idea is- you'll see that the formula is somewhat similar- that you have this momentum which is Vt is equal to beta, vt Minus one plus alpha times the gradient. that's the same thing. But what's different is that you don't necessarily take the gradient that wt, okay, But you take the gradient at Wt Minus Beta, Vt Minus one. Okay, you know, I don't think we have to go to much into detail into these nest of accelerated gradient, Okay, And you know you can, But maybe let me spend a little bit. you know, typically in the momentum update, you have a gradient step, You have a momentum step and then you take an actual step which is kind of a linear combination of the gradient and momentum step, Right? So, for example, oh, over here, right, You're basically taking a linear combination or a convex combination of the gradient And this, whereas in Nestorov you end up taking the gradient at a different step, at a different point in, for example, in this figure, you kind of take a momentum step and then you take a gradient which is slightly different than taking the linear combination of the gradients And you can think of this as kind of a look ahead gradient step and in many cases Nestrov accelerated gradient can work better, Oh, Although I think its importance has kind of decreased in training large neural networks. One question is: you know, why does the momentum work? Why is momentum Std better than Std itself? Okay, And remember, let's come back to the root of why we motivated Sgd right. Stochastic gradient descent is basically you can think of it as a way to estimate the gradient. It is an unbiased estimator, right, Which means that it's mean of the error at each step can be regarded as 0, but the different estimators can vary in terms of their variance. their variance might be large for Sgd, and what momentum is able to do, and you can show it, is that it reduces the variance of the gradient estimator. And then there are some other techniques that people have done over the years which can reduce the variance of the gradient estimator, But momentum is a pretty cheap way. Some of these other methods can have, you know, more computation which is involved. Right, that's 1 justification. Okay, now let's talk a little bit about adaptive updates, And this is very important because many of the methods that are used today in training these deep neural networks are based upon a method called Ada Grad. right, Or you might have heard of Adam, Right, they are somewhat similar. Right, Eta grad, as the name implies, is adaptive gradient. Okay, what do we mean by adaptive gradient? Okay, let's look at it. Right, what an adaptive algorithm does is each dimension can have a different step size. Okay, remember that my W Naught is some d-dimensional model And I said D can be very large, D can be in the billions or hundreds of billions. Right, when I do Std, the Std update is the same step size for all the different dimensions for each of the- possibly you know, 400 billion dimensions. What Inograd does is- And I can just go straight to the formula- You can just look at the formula right now. What it's saying is that the there should be an I over here. I think the I is missing, WT Plus one in the ith coordinate is wt in the I-th coordinate, and what you end up using is, you know, same thing as before: Ada Times G. gt just means gradient of F, at and the ith component of the gradient. right, There are some notational issues over here, right? I think I should have probably put J over here, J Over here and Gj Over here, Okay, But what it is saying is that you are taking the gradient and each dimension you are scaling by Ada, which is as an Std, But now you have a per coordinate step size and that per coordinate step Size is computed as follows: you take the square of the gradient in that dimension and you basically just keep on adding it. And then there are some methods where, instead of taking them and adding things, You again do a discount factor. You can do beta times gj T minus one plus one minus beta times Gj T Squared, okay. And this you can think about as a diagonal preconditioner. what it is saying is that you take your gradient vector and then you multiply it by a diagonal matrix, And this diagonal matrix has these values: one divided by square root of GIT in its diagonal elements, And this epsilon is just that, it is a small constant to try to avoid, You know things, division by 0.. Okay, any questions about this method? you can basically think of it As you know. you basically have a step size, a different step size for each dimension, And this can be really regarded as a diagonal scaling of the gradient, where this is the diagonal that you have. Okay, basically, And if you look at it right, this has coordinate, This has scale of G, this is G square and you take square root of it. in a way, this is kind of little bit dimensionless. This G divided by square root of G squared is essentially a dimensionless quantity. Right, it has, I think, this good property that, for example, if you scale your loss function by alpha Right, This update is not going to change, which is a good property to have. right, because in stochastic gradient, If you scale your loss function by Alpha, the gradient will also get scaled by Alpha right And, depending upon how you initialize W, Or you might get, like you know, quite different W's. Either they'll be scaled by Alpha or they might not be very good. Okay, this is kind of an important, I think, milestone in training of deep neural networks that you know this adaptive scaling is being done, especially when my neural network parameters are in the, you know, hundreds of billions. May I ask you a question here? Yes, please, is there an advantage for this method on the gradient descent, not the stochastic. if you do gradient descent, the- Yeah, you know, this comes under the class of. if I study classical optimization, right, I can do gradient descent And then I can go on to something called second order methods, right, And you might have heard of things, Newton's method and on, And they end up also being a scale changing the gradient direction. And in the Newton method you look at the inverse of the Hessian. That's what applies to Yep, Yep, Right, that is, you know, in the classical optimization theory. that's what happens. And even in classical optimization sometimes they'll say: Hey, the Hessian is a d by D matrix, it's too expensive to compute. you know, it's not only the fact that you have to compute the second derivatives, but it is space inefficient also. Of course it compensates by, you know, having a faster rate of convergence. Right, The reason it's called second order is because it doubles the bits of accuracy. It's supposed to double the bits of accuracy If you are close enough to the solution, right, And even in classical optimization theory They will say that, okay, you know, instead of using the Hessian right, One thing that you could use is a diagonal approximation to the Hessian right, And in which case the update becomes this: Wt plus one is Wt minus diagonal times the gradient. Okay, And then the question is what diagonal you should use. right here also, you know, again, computing the second derivatives might be hard. This is essentially looking at the second moment of the oh, cross moment gradient matrix. you can form a matrix of, you know, which is gg transpose, And if you accumulate it, then these become the diagonals of those elements, the diagonal of that full matrix. I guess what I'm saying is that, you know, it's not that this is kind of completely new, It comes out of left field, But it is kind of, you know, related to classical optimization theory And in the context of neural networks. It's an important step because many times you might not have second order information, it might be too hard to compute, and but the gradients are always there. this is easily computed just from the gradients itself and it ends up having this nice property That it is. you know, the, this quantity that you compute is kind of unitless, because, I said this is G and this is kind of square root of G squared Did. did that answer, Mike, Your question hormone? Yes, thank you, Yeah, yeah, yeah, And I'm not gonna talk about it. But you know, recently there's also a lot of work in, like, you know, more general second order methods, right, I have done a recent amount of research on it. But there's a method called the shampoo which uses a chronicle product, approximation of this second outer product of the gradients. And recently actually, there was a competition which was organized to find out, you know, the there are a bunch of benchmark problems and various teams were asked to submit their method to see which method would perform the best, right, And they had this particular evaluation measure and it turned out that, you know, Adam was not the best over there, Right, Adam is, you know, adaptive momentum based method. one is differences that there is momentum over here, right, But then it is similar to the having an adaptation over here, Okay, And it turned out that that shampoo method which uses a more dense kind of preconditioner which is based on the chronicle product of this weight matrix or the gradients, is a better method. Okay, again, lots of active exploration in this area. Thank you Sure. And then you know, just to kind of go through again with Elograd, Right, for each dimension, You know we have kind of T samples, gi, from iteration Step one to step T, and this is each dimension, I okay, And if you think about the standard deviation, You know it's kind of scales as square root T and if you assume that the step size is kind of declining with square root T, then you can kind of do this right. as a result you will notice that this is Ada, Okay, this does not need to be to decline, because in some sense you can think of it as the actual step sizes, eta divided by square root T, right, And what you have over here is that you are dividing this G by G divided by square root of T, okay. And then I think you know, if you look at current Llm training, Probably the most most popular method is the atom optimizer, right, And the atom optimizer- The name is basically momentum plus adaptive updates. it has, you know, you initialize momentum And the notation is slightly different. over here V is for the adaptive part. over here, Right, you compute the gradient, Okay, And then you a stochastic gradient, Right. Then you compute the momentum beta, one times empty minus one. you can basically decrease the importance of the momentum or the gradient versus the squared gradients at different rates. typically there's beta one, there's Beta 2.. And then you do this update which is now: this is momentum, kind of this, except they have this bias correction term over here. And then there's a little bias correction term over here of the Vs. you basically have Mt divided by square root of Vt, and Vt are the square gradients. this is the atom method that you might have read about in, you know, different papers or blog articles, or even if you have, you know, run the software and on. You might end up using the atom optimizer with different hyperparameters, hyper parameters referring to Beta one, beta 2.. And on, Okay, any questions, one thing we talked about is, you know, like what should the batch be Right? at one extreme You can have a batch of one right, but if you think about a batch of one, It has a drawback to it, Which means that you're not able to use Your hardware efficiently. Okay, let's, we'll think a little bit about that. the larger batch size implies there is more computation per step, per update, Okay, And it is a less noisy approximation, Stochastic approximation of the gradient. But the current way of doing using deep neural networks is very much also tied to to the hardware. I'm sure all of you I've heard about Gpus, right, And Gpus are excellent at doing matrix matrix multiplication. Okay, they can do matrix matrix multiplication very fast and, as a result, they can fully utilize the competition resource. what you want to do is: you want to, ideally for computational reasons, for efficiency reasons, you can. You want to choose your batch size which is large enough that fits in Gpu memory and can fully utilize a competition resource. Okay, Can somebody tell me why matrix matrix multiplication is better for using hardware? Better You can parallelize it with the Gpu, right, You can paralyze it. Yes, that is one reason. But if I have separate matrix vector multiplications or even vector vector operations, like, What is the advantage of matrix multiplication? I think the CPU, the Gpu- they also have vector registers- allows you to matrix vector multiplication, allows you to use those registers. and then, Yeah, let me ask you a simple question. Suppose I want to take a matrix which is an N by N matrix and multiply it with a vector. Okay, how many operations are there? order to do a matrix times vector operation? It should be o of n, squared right, It's O of N squared. And how much data is involved in matrix times vector multiplication? you have the matrix right, it's n squared elements, The vector is n. but you have n squared data and you have n squared operations. Yeah, correct, Yeah, yeah, Well, now suppose I have 2 matrices, N By N Matrices. what is the time, What is the number of operations that you need to multiply 2 matrices? I think- Wait, I think it's the brute Force way- is oven queue. But isn't there a faster way to do it? in oven to the 2 point 5, or something a little less than oven cubed, Right? Right, let's forget about the faster methods. But the usual way of matrix multiplication, which is also in the software, is order N cube. it's about 2 N cube right, N cube multiplications and N cube additions. But how much data was there? How much data is involved? O of n squared. Orphan spirit, that's the key part. number of operations is N cube. Amount of data that needs to be moved is n squared. if you can be clever about it, you can do order n operations per data movement. That's the reason why matrix multiplication is much better. Okay, on Gpus, or even on cpus implemented properly. Right then matrix vector multiplication. when you have larger batch size, you can essentially do most of these operations as matrix matrix multiplication. Does that make sense? Yeah, Now I get it. Yeah, Yeah, by the way, the you know you. you talked about the faster methods. Right, there's something called Strawson's method that has complexity. end to the power. log to the base. 2, 7.. Right, Basically you can do 2 by 2.. Matrix multiplication: Multiply 2 by 2 matrices using 7 operations rather than 8 operations. Right, you can get it faster. The problem is that many of these faster methods are not numerically stable. the usual way of matrix multiplying 2 matrices is numerically much better than these faster methods. That's the, I'm pretty sure. that's the only reason why you don't see, Oh, these faster methods being used in practice. Okay, Otherwise they will actually, if they they end up working it, make a huge difference. Okay, actually, I'm still. stars is a pretty simple algorithm. I'm not sure why. I think people have tried to make it numerically stable And I still I'm unsure Why it's not kind of widely used, more widely used. Okay, okay, But let's go on to you know what, if I have? you know, For example, Now you see about. you know chat, Gpt Models, gemini models being trained with. you know hundreds of thousands of, you know, Gpus or Tpus, right Tensor processing units. how do they do it? Well, they do something called data parallel right, Distributed computing. Okay, they. what they would want to do is: you take the total batch size, you increase it linearly with the number of gpus or devices or chips, And that would be kind of large patch training. Each worker would basically be able to use the same batch And that means that if you have more workers, then the total batch, which is the cumulative batches being processed by all the workers, Right, will be higher. Right, that's what you want to do If you want to try to achieve more and more efficiency, if you want things quicker, Right. So of course, with, like I said, with Martin, our training not only is here kind of, we have depicted this master slave relationship Where there's data parallelism: Gw From each worker is sent to the master, It's aggregated, W is Updated and W Is sent back right. What is done these days in very large Llm training is that not only do you have data parallelism, which means that data parallelism means that different workers or Gpus can work on different data, But there's also model parallelism, which means that W is sharded or distributed across the workers. And typical training These days includes both data parallelism as well as modern parallelism And it is, you know, like distributed computing skills that makes it all efficient. that's why it's kind of not really easy to kind of replicate either the Gpu hardware or the software that goes to kind of make all these things work. Okay, We've told far talked only about efficiency, right, But actually what happens to when you have large batch training? What can happen is when you have large batch training, that models can end up getting to lower test accuracy when using very large bed size. there is a point in between where you might have to use it. right, for hardware reasons you may want to increase the bed size, But for convergence reasons you may not be able to use very bad large pet size. and people have done some studies. You know This is an old study But it still says that you know when you use large batch, std or atom. Remember, now we are no longer, You know we are training deep neural networks, Right. we are no longer in the regime where there is just one minima. right, It can be the loss surface can be riddled, you know, with multiple minima. and on the study said is that the large batch, Std or atom, converges to what's called a sharp local minimum, which means that you know this is very sharp over here on the right side. right, That you're not in a very smooth gradually increasing gradually. you know, decreasing minima, It's a sharp minima. as a result, if you just deviate a little bit from it, you might get much higher loss values. Right, training can end up being a little bit unstable. Okay, And one potential thing to do is that you can actually, as you increase bad size, you can also increase the learning rate. And the justification is that you know, when you look at the variance of the estimator, It kind of scales as one divided by B, and you can change your learning rate that it also increases. But the problem is that you cannot kind of keep on increasing it. But for convergence, you can't have the learning rate be too large. you cannot increase the learning rate without limit. And then what people then also look at is like, for example, if you have these, you know deep learning, Remember, You know it's not just neural network learning. deep learning means that there are multiple layers. Right, It's deep. Right. then one can try to say, Okay, what learning rate should I use for maybe different layers, Right, these are the kind of the different layers of a particular neural network, right? And what one can see is that you might end up having very different norm of the parameters versus the norm of the gradient. this is an example where, if you look at the rightmost column, the norm of the parameters divided by the norm of the updates or the gradients- sorry, can vary quite a bit, from 20 over here to 3,700.. And what people have done is they sometimes will modify your learning rate, Okay, to kind of take out the scale difference. you can think of it as G is being normalized and then you scale the answer with scale, the, the unit gradient, with the norm of W, the updates kind of become similar to the parameters which are being updated. Okay, there are various methods. One is called Lars, and that's when G is the stochastic gradient. The other is called kind of lamb, Where G is the Adam Update. Okay, But this kind of scaling is applied. when it applied to Std, it's called laws. when supplied to Adam, it's called lamp. right, And there was a, you know, earlier, before the aid of Llms, You know, there were these birth models that were becoming really popular and influential. again, this is transformer models, And you know, people used to use very small batch size and then it would take quite a bit to train it. However, if you start increasing the bad size, training would become unstable, right, there was a a nice piece of work in 2020, where they use kind of- I think it was either lamb or large, probably lamb- and they were able to kind of do this training the birth model- in kind of 76 min at that time, and then both Google and Nvidia used lamp to train Bird within 1 min, right, And that all this has kind of laid the seeds to the current Llms that are being pre-trained. They use just an enormous amount of oh compute in terms of hardware, enormous amount of training data, And that's how you kind of see the amazing results that you kind of are seeing on a daily basis. Okay, today I've tried to. I think we've talked a little bit about stochastic gradient descent before in the class. You probably have used it in the homework also, but we wanted to just talk about it in a separate lecture. variants of Std are what is the popular method in neural network training. as with most cases, most things in deep learning, Nothing is really settled Right, people are still investigating- It's an active area of kind of research and development- about what methods work for what class of neural networks and how to optimize them. Okay, that is the end of today's lecture. Any questions? Okay, if there are no questions, thanks for listening and then we will get your midterm grades out to you soon and then I will see you next week where we'll have, I think I'll probably cover different kind of neural network architectures And then soon we will come to you know transformers and on. Okay, thank you much. Okay, Bye.