Okay, let's start just a couple of announcements At the beginning of class. your homework One has been graded And of course you are currently doing homework 2.. we will return homework one solutions and the grades later today. Hopefully homework 2 is going well. That is due on Friday And I let Nilesh kind of make an announcement about Homework one and what to expect when you get back to graded solutions. Yeah, there is just a update regarding how we are grading the homework. initially, like, like, maybe I should have set it up earlier, but we didn't have the grade scope set set up. I just, while doing the homework evaluations I realized it's easier to get Give the feedback on grade scope. going ahead, we'll be moving to grade scope for submitting your homework solutions and grading it. for the homework one, I have just manually submitted all of your submissions and given feedback there. like, if you open your gradescope accounts, you will see Cs 391 l, Spring 25.. There, if you don't, please let me know and I'll see how to add it. But last I checked it was synced to the canvas roaster and all of you were present there. I haven't released the grades yet. we'll do it once this class is over, but it will be by the evening You'll have the grades and the feedback. and, yeah, for the for homework 2, and the homeworks coming ahead once again. we are making a switch that like, instead of submitting to canvas, please submit to grade scope itself. It will save me some time of manually downloading the homeworks from canvas and then transferring them to gradescope. yeah, I'll, I'll make also add announcement about this. But yeah, I hope you are If, if, then, if there's any problem with regarding accessing grade scope or trying to see these homeworks there, like, Please let me know Current, Okay, any questions about that? Yes, Sorry, Currently gradescope is not enabled as a tab on canvas. Is there any way it can be added as a tab? Let me check. even I was trying to figure out, there was no tab. usually is in other courses. like, is it the case that grid scope is there as a tab? Yeah, I see, Okay, let me let me see. like, how, how can we do that? that would be easier, sure, But yeah, oh, I will. I'll maybe in the announcement, like, if I'm able to make that happen by then, like, I'll like mention this that you can also access via one of the canvas tabs. But, yeah, right now, I agree, like that's not there, Thank you, Okay, any other questions about that? Okay, that was about homework one and homework more importantly, about how to submit homework 2.. And then next announcement is that we send out an announcement on Ed giving you the details, Logistic details, about the midterm. the midterm is going to be held next Wednesday in person and Elisha has given the room. please, you know, make sure to be on time to take the. it's an in class close book midterm. There were some questions about you know the material for the midterm. I think we've already sent an email about it. think of your homework questions as being, obviously, the homework questions are of 2 types: one where there is programming and the other is where you know there are some questions. think of those questions as templates for things that we might ask you in the midterm. that's 1: you have all the lecture notes, you have all the video material available. And then the second part is that you know that when you do your oh the part of the homework that does require some programming, you know many times there is some analytics or some thing about machine learning that you need to work out, either ridge regression or what the gradients are and on. we will have questions on that in the midterm. obviously, we won't ask any programming questions. you'll not be asked to program on paper, But there'll be questions related to those parts in the homework. Okay, all the material that I've covered, far Including today, will be in the midterm. We will give you next Monday off. There will be no lecture and there'll be a midterm on Wednesday. any questions? and I think we have, We We are still kind of finalizing the midterm, But I believe there are poll questions in the midterm. The 1st, 1st question will be have multiple parts, short questions, and then there'll be 3 questions which are, you know, slightly longer, But again, we'll have multiple parts, Any questions? Okay, if not, so let's start. last time, kind of, we talked about, we started talking towards the end of the, we did, You know, primal Dual for Svms And at the end of last lecture we started talking about. you know what happens in practice. Right, We 1st talked about linearly separable Svms. They're very limited Use. Nobody really uses them Because, you know, many times you have a classification problem. You don't know whether it is linearly separable or not. Right, the way Svms are used is as nonlinearly separable Svms. Okay, many times when people talk about Svms they'll just automatically mean nonlinearly separable Svms. But let's dive into that. Today's lecture, Okay, today we'll talk about nonlinearly separable svms. okay, And of you know, of course it is support vector machines. Okay, And I'll talk a little bit about. you know, continuing from the material that I mentioned I we started last time. that is going to be a major part of this lecture, But then you can couple it with something called kernel Svms that are another way to handle nonlinearly separable data sets. that's what we will talk about today. Okay, let me recall, you know, the Svm problem. You have points, one from one class, the others from another class, And then you have a margin, Okay, And then you have some points which are, you know, further away from the margin. Okay, And if I write the Svm, Why won't, that is, you know, minimize over WW Naught half of the 2 norm of W square and this margin. Sorry, my drawing is not symmetrical as it should be, but this is one divided by the 2 norm of W. okay, and this is equal to this part. Okay, And the property that the data is linearly separable. this is- I'm still talking about linearly separable Svms in the beginning. Okay, we did that. they should be. All the points should be on either side of the margin. I have this inequality and I've put it in kind of standard form for doing the analysis of primal dual. And then, when we look at what we have done before, is we We're able to derive the dual right through forming the Lagrangian, minimizing the Lagrangian over X's or W's sorry. And then we get that the Svm dual is a problem which is in the form of only looking at the dual variables, which are the alphas, And and when we did all the math we found that the, the form of the primal sorry form of the dual, add this form: Alpha i, Alpha, JYIY, J, Xi, Transpose Xk. you try to maximize this as a function over Alpha. and then the constraints that we have is that alpha I's are greater than equal to 0. I equals 1,, 2 through N. and then we have one additional kind of balancing constraint that actually, if you recall where it comes from, it comes from doing the minimization over W Naught, which is, you know, saying that the hyperplane does not necessarily pass through the origin. summation of Alpha i, yi equals 0, and we saw that the separating hyperplane had this form: W Star or the normal to the separating hyperplane. What of the form summation of Alpha i, Yi, Xi. And remember, the yi's are either plus one or minus one. this for nonlinearly- for sorry, linearly- separable svms. This is the primal, This is the dual and this is the form of the separating hyperplane. Okay, kind of interesting, right, that it is plus alpha I's Xi's for class one and minus Alpha I's Xi's of class 2, because y eyes are plus ones or minus one. And in terms of kind of this picture, what we found through analyzing the primal dual as well as the complementary slackness conditions that happen, And, and you know, if you have forgotten it and in some sense I'm going to do the nonlinearly separable Svm Today, that should reinforce what we did last time. Okay, if you have points which are away from the margin, Right, These alpha eyes end up not contributing 2 W. these alpha I's are all equal to 0, and we would not really have realized that if it wasn't for the, the analyzing the complementary slackness conditions. And then, if I have these points over here which are on the margin, Okay, because my constraints are saying that all the points have to be on either side of the margin over here- it would be this, this, let's say this was over here and this: right, These are the points where the actual alphas Are not equal to 0. in particular, they are greater than 0.. Okay, I'm just kind of doing a recap far of what we did before. Okay, now you know we are not always going to, like I said in the beginning of the lecture, we are not going to get this kind of easy data sets right where there is a clear linear separability between one class and the other class. In normal cases, you know we'll get, let's say, in In. In usual cases we might get. You know, we get one class over here, Another class over here, Okay, but there is some noise, there may be elements from the other class over here and there may be some of the pluses may be over here. what do we do in this case? Right, Which is the more realistic or usual case, because we may not know whether the data is linearly separable or not. Okay, last time we said that we can handle nonlinearly separable data through Svms using a very slight modification to the optimization problem. Okay, what we say is that we'll keep the. We went through the machinery and we arrived at the primal, which is very similar. Okay, minimize over WW Naught Psi. we introduce one more variable. It does not come in the objective over here. It does not come over here, right, but it relaxes each of these and that's why it's called a slack variable. the size are slack variables. it's basically saying that, hey, Instead of being very particular, that each and every point should be on, you know, one side of the margin, depending upon the class label. We'll give it some slack. We'll say that, hey, You know, it can obey this inequality up to a fact, up to apply. Okay, what do I mean by up to psi? it says that my YI, W transpose xi plus w, naught When we said it has to be on the other side of the margin. This has to hold right. This is how we got the primal stm. and now we'll just say that, Oh, it's one minus psi I and psi eyes are going to be greater than equal to 0.. We do need to control that the psi eyes can't be too many. one potential constraint would be that psi i Is less than equal to a constant. the summation of the psi I's I equals one through And it's a constant. okay, And this, what you can do is you can take this into the objective. Okay, remember that we can. you know, instead of having a linear inequality constraint over here, this we can take, you know, plus gamma times this, and move it into the objective. they're very kind of similar. this is then the primal. As a result, this is the primal problem. Okay, let me write it. minimize off W 2 square plus gamma times. Summation of psi I equals one through. Okay, such that, And again that. now let me put this into standard form, Remember, standard form is that I want all the Fi X's to be less than equal to 0, and the only reason we do It is that we kind of have this thing about the Lagrangian and the corresponding dual variables, for these inequality constraints are going to be greater than equal to 0. Right, the constraint is I want to write this as an inequality less than equal to 0, inequality. I'll say that one minus I, minus this is less than equal to 0. I have one minus I minus YI W. Transpose Xi plus W Naught is less than equal to 0. I've just rewritten this as a less than equal to. okay, And remember I have not tried this, but this is again over all the training gate. I equals 1, 2. cool, and then again I'll do the same thing over here, instead of saying: Psi eyes are greater than equal to 0. Let me write it as: minus I is less than equal to 0.. Okay, this is the primal that we are dealing with. Now one thing I don't know If I may have mentioned that. you know, Why did we do the derive, The dual one? was to kind of get this intuition right about geometric intuition, about what is happening And what my support Vectors are right. these are the support vectors, the ones where the alphas are greater than greater than 0, right. But the other part is that you know, many of the much of the software which is able to work for very, very large data sets is by working with the dual solution. And one of the reasons is because the dual solution, the inequality concerns, are much simpler. This is, you know, just a non, a negative inequality constraint And there's just one equality constraint as opposed to these more complicated, you know, and inequality constraints. And it turns out that sometimes, or many cases, that this problem ends up being quite a bit easier. And and there's also another reason, many times, you know, at least from this figure. Now, this figure is not representative of a linear, nonlinearly separable Svm. we'll come to that later. But many of the alphas end up being zeros over here, right, The ones that are correctly classified. sometimes you can kind of start this from the solution- alpha equal to 0, and then incrementally add the alpha. what people found is that if you do these kind of coordinate descent or descent methods or ascent methods, Then you can get a much quicker solve. Okay, just to kind of give you another motivation of why we look at the Svm dual, It's not just to build the intuition but quite important for building good quality software for this problem. Okay, I've kind of motivated again the need for the dual. let's try to derive the dual corresponding to this primal. Okay, I'm again going to go now, Possibly a little bit, not possibly, but but with a little bit quicker than I went last time. But we'll do all the steps kind of you get additional kind of exposure to this kind of material. the Lagrangian L is Now, remember, it has primal variables. WW Naught, Okay. Oh, and psi, right, I have 3 primal variables and then the corresponding dual variables. How many dual variables are there going to be? Remember, the dual variables corresponded to the inequalities in the primal. earlier There was just one set of inequalities. that's why we only had alphas, One set of dual variables. Now you have 2 sets of dual variables right, One corresponding to these inequalities and the other corresponding to these inequalities, for the time being At least. Okay, we'll see that we'll be able to get rid of one. Okay, I have Alpha and I have new. alphas are going to be, as before, dual variables: that corresponding to these inequalities and the Muse are the new new dual variables, now corresponding to the psi, Isb greater than equal to 0.. Okay, what is the Lagrangian? Well, I took at the primal objective. I'm just copying this down over here: half norm of w squared plus gamma. summation of sigh I: I equals one through N. and then I have term from here: right alpha eyes times the left hand side of fi: one minus i, minus YI. W transpose Xi. Oh, I made a typo here. Huh, This should not be there. Luckily I have an eraser, Let's see if I can selectively erase this. perfect, Okay. YIW transpose Xi plus W. naught, Okay. And then my final term over here is mu i minus I. Okay, But let me just write it as I'll just deploy. I'll just take the minus sign outside: minus, okay. And now we start the machinery. We take this lagrangiant and we look at the gradient with respect to W. If I set that equal to 0- the same thing as before, because really nothing much has changed in terms of those terms- Right, I have this W. And then I have this stuff from before. Okay, it's same as before, really hasn't changed. it turns out the W Will still be summation of Alpha i, Yi, Xi. It will still have that form. Okay, Similarly, when I take the gradient with respect to W Naught, Okay, I will, Let's see. if I take the gradient With respect to W Naught, I have basically summation of Alpha i, YI equal to 0, same as before. Okay, that's the balancing constraint. When I say balancing constraint, that basically says, you know, remember, y eyes are either plus ones or minus one. it just says that the sum of the Y alpha eyes for class one is the same as the sum of alpha is for Class 2.. Okay, And then the new part is the gradient With respect to psi. Okay, And what is that? Well, let's see, sigh occurs over here, over here and over here, right, what I get is that I get- And remember, I'm taking the gradient with respect to each psi I. I get gamma minus alpha. I minus mu. I equals 0.. Okay, 4.. I equals 1,, 2, n, and what that says is that alpha, I, which are my dual variables, have this form, which is equal to gamma minus mu I. Okay, that's the new part from before. this wasn't there before. Okay, now, if I substitute back, substitute this back into the Lagrangian, what I get is: well, again, It's identical to what we had done before. half of W square- let me write that out. half of summation of Alpha IYI XI, that is W And I'm doing non square, right. half of W square. this is W's of this form. I get that. and then I have half of summation of psi I times gamma. right, I need to substitute gamma from here. Right, I will Do. Let me see. Yeah, Well, actually I can collect these terms, right, I can collect sigh I. actually I don't, Sorry, Maybe I shouldn't, Shouldn't have said substituted. Let me just collect all the terms from summation of psi I. right, I have summation of Psi I. I have Gamma, and with each I have minus alpha i minus mu I. Well, I basically have summation of Psi I times gamma minus alpha I minus. Yeah, let me keep on kind of of writing it up and then we'll see we can simplify it. plus, Let me write this: summation of Alpha I term out as before: formation of Alpha I: I equals one from M. This term I've already included in this. I right, I've already included this term. what's left is summation of Alpha I yi Xi, Transpose times. W And W is of this form: Okay, I can write this as minus summation of I equals one through N. Alpha IYI Xi, Transpose times. And this is W Summation of I equals one through N. alpha IYIX I. okay, And then the one term that I have left- again, it's very similar to what I did last time. It is this: W Naught- Right. summation of Alpha I yi w naught. Okay, it's minus summation of Alpha i YIW naught Y equal to 1? 12.. Okay, And now, if I look at- remember I had this balancing constraint, just as before- Okay, and I have this part, this, because W Naught is common- this is going to be equal to 0.. Right, summation of Alpha i Yi Equal to 0.. And now there's another thing that happens, which is now, if I look at this part now, which is that gamma minus alpha i minus mu, i equal to 0. And I look over here, Well, that's exactly this. this is also equal to 0.. Okay, And then I basically, if you see, very similar to this, I can combine this right to give me minus half. Okay, this will give plus half of this square, And this is same thing, except there is a minus one over here. this will give me minus one half. summation of: I equals one through N, Alpha IYI, Xi, and I take the norm square, Okay, And then this, as before, it gives me plus summation of Alpha. Okay, we are kind of putting it all together, Right, And the dual problem then becomes. remember now I'm going to maximize with respect to my dual variables- What are my dual variables? They are alpha and Mu, And I have summation of Alpha I. I equals one through N. just, I'm just copying it from here: Okay, minus one half summation of. I can write it an expanded form I did before. This is Alpha i, Alpha J, YI, yj, xi, Transpose xj, and my dual variables are alpha eyes and mu i's and the constraint is that alpha i is greater than equal to 0 and mu i, which is the dual variables, correspond to the psi eyes. They are also greater than equal to 0. Okay, I equals one to end. And then I have that balancing constraint which is summation of Alpha i, YI equal to 0?? Okay, quite a bit of algebra, right, But again pretty much a repetition of what we did last time. But this is the version that is used. I have a question: Good, Do you also need the constraint that gamma minus alpha i minus mu i is equal to 0, or is that a part integrated into a good point? I missed that, right I? And actually I was about to come to that. this is That alpha I. how's the form Gamma minus mu y, correct? No, What did I write? Comma I minus me, Or I? right? And actually, what does that employ? This implies Mu i is greater than equal to 0 minus mu i is less than equal to 0. right, this implies that alpha I is less than equal to. Yeah, if I basically take this and put it over here, Okay, it's quite interesting that the dual problem becomes the following: maximize I can eliminate the mute. okay, Because alpha I has this form: gamma minus mu i, the maximum value alphas Can take as gamma, And that's the only place where it comes in. I can eliminate meal, And this is the final form of the dual problem. Okay, such that now I have that Alpha I is not only greater than equal to 0 was also less than equal to gamma, for I equals 1,, 2 through N and the balancing constraint. Okay, who does that? Sorry, I ended up. No, that makes sense. Yeah, I also had a question on the Lagrangian. before you took the dual, Can you, wherever it's left, circled Psi I times gamma minus alpha i minus mu i I get. Can you go back to how you like Got that part when you took out the psi. I's like I think, if you go a little bit up from here, I guess maybe not in the original Lagrangian, You, you, I understand You factor out the sigh eyes, But how did the alpha I term come? remember there was here, right? Oh, I see, I see that makes sense. Yeah, Right, The alpha eyes were the dual variables corresponding to this inequality Constraint. you will get an alpha i times psi I term, which is new now compared to the linearly separable Svm problem that we did. Yeah, that makes sense. Sorry, I missed that There. But, yeah, thank you. Okay, But you see, like it's kind of pretty interesting, right, I mean in a, in a way it's quite beautiful, Honestly. right when we did the Svm Primal and the Svm dual for linearly separable, right We pretty much gorgeous duel. But then when we added this nonlinear separability, if you just take a note at this right, Just make a mental picture of this, You have an objective summation of Alpha I, I equals one through M, then basically some quadratic term in the alphas, linear inequality and a balancing constraint. If I just look at it, the nonlinearly as separable Svm just ends up changing this that not only is it greater than or equal to 0, but there's also an upper bound on the alphas That they cannot be greater than equal to lambda or gamma. Sorry, where gamma is the, the, the kind of weight that is given to the slack variables compared to this WW 1.. Okay, it's kind of remarkable that it happens right And this also I said it turns out to be easier to solve also in practice. but it also gives us- Let's now look at, you know, the complementary slack test conditions and we'll realize that again it enhances our understanding of what has happened. let's look at the complementary slackness conditions. By the way, I know there was one question. Anybody else have a question on what we just did? feel free to ask. Huh, The complementary slackness conditions. Remember, it's talking about both kind of the dual variables and the corresponding constraint which says that, for each eye, Alpha i Times the f fives where fi X is, or W is less than equal to 0, that must be equal to 0 at the optimal. this is the 1st set of complementary slackness conditions, Right, Remember, there are 2 sets of dual variables and the Mu I's are: mu i, sigma i, psi I is greater than equal to- sorry, equal to 0.. Okay, let's look at the picture. Right, we had, You know, we have one class, we have another class, right, And remember, we have some. It's all linearly separable. we have some pluses on this side and some minuses on the other side. I still have a separating hyperplane, Right, There's still some points on the margin or on the boundary, Okay, just as before, and let me just color them with, you know, different colors, the ones that are kind of correctly classified. Okay, there, the alpha I's are equal to 0.. Okay, from before, what we had, right, There are some points on the boundary. These points all have alpha I is to be greater than 0. But now there are other things, right, the other parts which are misclassified, misclassified ones, are, you know, here, here, here I'm here, Okay, And what happens to the misclassified points? Okay, if I think about it, the misclassified points. Let me just okay, these points are misclassified. What happens for these points? soy eyes are greater than 0. And what does that mean for the complementary slackness Conditions that mu I must be equal to 0. And if I go back, remember that alpha eyes are of the form gamma minus mu i. that means that the alpha eyes are equal to Yeah. Okay, for these misclassified points, Maybe I should have lived, you know, used a 3rd color, right, But Alpha I is equal to now obviously it is greater than 0. But you can see, now that you know, Alpha eyes for misclassified points are limited. They cannot be bigger than gamma. even if there's a huge outlier or right which is somewhere over here, a negative over here or a positive way away from the margin right, That outlier does not affect your decision boundary too much. It's capped at Gamma. Okay, And remember that my solution is of the form W, equal to summation of I equals one through M, Alpha IYIX, i. the support vectors are now essentially, you know, not just support vectors but points on the wrong side of the hyperplane, right of the margin. they are the points which are on the boundary, plus the misclassified. Okay, let me just kind of recap and then we'll move on to Kernel Svms. Okay, but I'm just gonna write it over here because I'm gonna make some points. Okay, Svm Primal is: minimize over W, W, Naught, sorry, Half of W Square, Thus gamma. summation of psi: IY Equals one through n, such that psi eyes are greater than equal to 0.. Y equals 1,, 2,, 2, and, and then one minus I. I minus YI, W Transpose Xi Plus W, Naught is less than equal to 0.. I equals 1, 2.. that's my Svm primal, Okay, And then I'll write the Svm dual over here, right next to it. This is maximize over Alpha- Remember, we were able to get rid of the mu variables. Summation of Alpha I, I equals 1,, 2, N Minus one. half. summation I equals one through N. Summation of J Equals one through N. Alpha i, Alpha, J, YIYJ. Next slide, transport: 60, such that my inequality constraints, again on the dual variables, are simpler, non-negative, and a capping constraint cannot be bigger than yeah. Well, okay, Summation of Alpha: IYI equal to it. Okay. And the reason I've kind of written it again over here is that I want to point to 2 things, Okay, which are both quite surprising. What we will see later on is today or not. When I say later on. just I'll talk about it at the end of the lecture. You can think of this as regularization and this quantity, That's a loss, classification loss, And it turns out that this is something called the hingeless and we'll come that, come to that towards end of the class. And then the other thing that I want to show, say, is that you can write the dual, And actually that's 1 of the reasons why the dual is important. Very important is when we look at kernel Svms, you can see that this is only dependent on the inner product. Right Xi, transpose XJ. okay, And you can take this and you can extend it, And I'll talk about it in just a few minutes- is that I can take this And instead of just using and normal inner product, I can use a kernel function which is an inner product on a nonlinearly, nonlinear feature space. Okay, I've written something where you might have no idea what I'm talking about. let's discuss it, Okay. But another reason why the Svm dual is very critical is because I can just take this, change it to this and then I can just do this problem, whereas if I was to do the Svm Primal and I was to take X and map it to fee explicitly. this problem will really blow up in the dimension of W. okay, let's, let's, let's see what I'm talking about. Okay, let me make a few definitions, Okay, And I'll show you how to also write this. You see how you know long it takes me to write. Write the Svm Dual. Let me write it in a much more compact form. Okay, let me define, Let me go back to my original pen. Hello, okay, let me define X. let me stack up all the training data as the columns of this matrix X. okay, this is something that we did, for example, in least squares problems. Let me denote a diagonal matrix with the labels, with the wires. Okay, if I now look at the matrix, see, I have extra, I have Xi transpose Xj. if I form the matrix, X transpose X. and I look at the idea element, that is exactly Xi transpose XJ. okay, And sometimes this matrix is called the RAM matrix. Okay, let me also use another notation, which is E, which is the all ones vector, all ones Column vector, and this means that E transpose is all ones Row Vector. okay, given this above notation, given the above notation, the dual Svm can be written in a very, very compact way. The Dual Svm Can be written as well. I have summation of Alpha I right over here. Summation of Alpha. Well, I can just write it As so: First st- of course there's a maximization problem over Alpha. Summation of Alpha is just E, transpose, alpha, E transpose is the vector of all ones. If I take an inner product with Alpha, okay, Alpha is column vector of Alpha one, Alpha 2, I will follow. Okay, And the second part, which looks very kind of, it's a quadratic function right in the alphas. I can write it as a quadratic form. What do I mean by that? it is minus one half alpha, Transpose, y transpose, X, transpose XY. okay, just take a minute and see. And, and of course I forgot the alpha at the end. This quadratic form, if you expand it out, is exactly equal to this. and I've just written y, transpose. I could have just written y, because y is a diagonal mate. y transpose, YY, transpose equals Y. okay, that's the power of kind of you know linear algebra, that sometimes you can get rid of all these hairy indices and write things in a very simple form. Okay, And if I? and then what do I have? I have inequality constraints. 0 is less than equal to Alpha is less than equal to gamma. I can write that, as you know, Alpha, the vector Alpha right, is greater than equal to the 0 vector and it's less than equal to gamma times the E vector, all once, And then Alpha transpose Y inclusive. I've just written things very compactly, Okay. And if I further, I write this matrix as Q, this becomes equal to E transpose alpha minus one half. Alpha transpose Q, Alpha. you can see very clearly now from here that you have a quadratic bomb Optimization problem. Objective is quadratic and you have linear inequality constraints. And further on you can show that Q is a positive, semidefinite matrix because it has this form: X Tilde transpose X Tilde, where X Tilde is x times Y. okay, Well, I've kind of just introduce notation and just written the Svm problem a little bit more compactly, Okay, And, and there's a reason why I'm doing that- now let's move on to the classification problem. Okay, classification problem. let me kind of give you a data set which is you know lies. Let's say you have a data set which is in 2 concern, Where Class one there's 1 concentric circle and class 2 is a second concentric circle. Have you seen this data set somewhere else, or no? Okay, I'm sorry, My circles are a little squished, but they're supposed to be circles, Okay, And here now you can start seeing that, even though the approach that I took said nonlinearly a Svm Problem, it's probably not a good idea to think of a hyperplane over here and, you know, penalize these points for being on the other side of the hyperplane. That's just a bad model for separating this kind of data set And you know we've. the good model would be what is a good surface surface that separates the circles from the pluses. And it's just this quadratic surface, right, This is a circle through the middle, right, Everything inside this red circle can be classified, as you know, belonging to this class and everything outside can be thought of as belonging to the positive class. And if I think of this equation, right, this equation is just x 1 square plus x 2 squared, equal to, oh right, where x 1 and x 2 are the 2 coordinates, Right, Sorry, I'm changing notation a little bit, but x 1 and x 2 are the 2 coordinates, right. Now, okay, this is not linear. And x, okay, what can one do? so Here is the trick that one can do. Suppose you have X in Rd, d dimensionals, Okay, in particular, d equals 2, we can look at X equal to x, 1 x 2.. Let me call this the input Space. Okay, what I can do is I can take this and I can map it to a nonlinear feature space. I'll map it to a feature space. fee is a map that goes from input space to feature space. input spaces Rd, and typically this will be our d prime, where d prime is greater than D. okay, and how will I do so? For example, I can take this, as I can construct a constant feature: square root 2 x 1, square root 2 x 2.. these are the linear features, which are same as before, and I can construct quadratic features. what I've done over here is I've gone from 2D, 2, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, d prime equals 6.. It's not I'm using any new information, I'm just constructing a feature space from the 2 features that are given to me. So, for example, if I have this data set, each training data would be described by 2 coordinates and the corresponding Y, right. What I've done is I can represent it as a 6 dimensional feature space. Okay, And here's the interesting part, right That if I now look at this separating surface, It is not linear in X, not linear in the feature space, but it is linear and fear fights. in principle, What you could do is you could, You know you have this problem, Right. you can either solve these problems in input space, But you'll only get a linear classifier in the input space, linear decision boundary in the input space. The other is, I can change this X to be Phi of X. right, instead of X is being 2 dimensional. in the example that I gave of the 2 concentric circles, few effects would be 6 dimensional And I can solve it. Okay. but the problem is you've taken a 2 dimensional feature space and kind of blown it up, made it much bigger, right, How many features are there? by by, in the construction that I have here, I went from D equal to 2 to do equal to d, prime equal to 6.. Right, I'm basically taking every possible combination. you would go from D to D Square. That's a big blow up. all of a sudden Your, you know, your D is already, Let's say you know millions of features. Suppose you have a very big problem, right, And then you go from 10 for 6,, 2,, 10.12 features. much, much bigger problem, right, Trillion features. that's just too expensive. And the one of the beauties of kernel Svm, which I'm going to talk about, is that you can just solve the problem in d dimensions- 2 dimensions in this case, And here's the crucial observation. The crucial observation is: if I take fee exit, few effects. I take few of X prime, Okay, if I have X prime equals x 1 prime x 2 prime. that's another data point. I don't know why I did transpose x 1, prime, x 2, prime, Okay, And I say that Phi of X prime equals, you know, same function, Right? one square root 2 x 1 prime square root to x 2 prime x 1 prime square x 2, 5 square, and then square root 2 x 1 prime x 2 prime. The interesting thing is that if I take the inner product, okay, between these 2, this and this, let me write that one square root, 2 x 1.. Well, maybe I should just write this below: Okay, PX, transpose fee, X prime is equal to. I'm just gonna copy this, copy this: it's 1 square root 2 x 1 square root 2 x 2 x 1 squares x 2 squares, square root 2 x 1 x 2, and then one square root 2 x 1 prime square root of 2 x 2 prime. x 1 prime square x 2 prime square. Please keep me honest, I'm almost certain I probably made a typo somewhere. square root: 2 x 1 prime x 2 prime. Okay, And if I multiply this out, let me do it: one plus 2 x 1 x one prime plus 2 x 2 x 2 prime plus x 1 square x 1 prime square plus x 2 square x 2 prime square plus 2 x 1 x 2 x one prime x 2 prime. Okay, And you can see that you can write this as one plus. I can, you know, write this as one plus x 1 x one prime plus x 2 x 2 prime, Where- this is a very crucial observation. Okay, that means that I've written it as one plus that's transpose times X prime square. And this competition- remember, this competition is in 6 dimensions, But I can do this computation in 2 dimensions because X is 2 dimensional, X prime is 2 dimensional, but few effects were 6 dimensional. in general, in the quadratic we call this the quadratic kernel. this is a polynomial colonel of degree 2.. That is a quadratic corner, Okay, and we'll denote this as K of XXY. here is the kernel. click basically can write K of XX prime as Phi of X, transpose Phi of x Prime. This computation is in d dimensions, This is in d prime dimensions and d prime can be d square, can be d cubed And actually in some cases we it is infinite with the. let me talk a little bit about kernel. in the Gaussian kernel This turns out to be infinite dimensions. But the beauty of this is that you never need to find this explicitly, You never need to form explicitly this very, very high dimensional feature space. for examples off kernel functions: Okay, Is the, let's say, the m degree polynomial, which is K of XX Prime is equal to one plus X. transpose X prime, We'll probably- and we looked in detail at M- equals 2.. with M equal to few effects was d square, But for General M, This is d to the power M. just think about how expensive. it will be right not just going to D squared but to D to the power M. okay, And then one of the most widely used kernel functions is the radial basis, or Gaussian kernel radio. This is Whoa Dawson, Toronto, and that is K of XX prime is E to the power minus x, minus x prime square divided by CC is a scale problem, And the reason why this is very important is that what you can do is you can take the dual problem and just replace this inner product with the kernel function And what you can do is you can devise methods, right, which never involve explicit enumeration of the feature space. you never need to compute Phi of X. All the computations that you do involve K of X or extended as a result. this computation can be done, done in you know some time. that is depends on N but never on d prime. that is another reason why svms were powerful, Because you could devise pretty good software for these kernel Stm's. okay, like you know, let me kind of talk a little bit about You know, our data set. This is the 2 concentric circles data set. There's also a popular data set, which is what's what's called the Xr data set. you have plus one over here, or plus 0, or plus 0 over here, And then you have class one over here, Okay, And this is called the Xor data, Because if I look at the coordinates of this is 0, 0.. This is what is it? 0, 1.. This is 1, 1.. And this is 1, 0, basically 0, 1, 0. xr one is plus one one. xr 0 is plus 1, 0. xr 0 is plus 0, 1. xr one is plus 0, right, And you can obviously see that there is really no linear separability over here. Okay, I think that's about the end of what I'm gonna talk about in terms of Svms. They are very, very good software packages. If you want to ever use Svms, lib Linear- Okay, that's linear Svm's, linear Svms, but nonlinearly separable Svms. And then there is lib Svm which and handle kernel functions. Okay, any questions? Let me just conclude by Let me just take a couple of minutes of your time. I might run over by a few minutes in regression. I'm kind of concluding now by kind of saying that there's a common framework between classification and digression. Right, We studied these 2 problems before. in regression, It was very clear, right, that we had a loss function, for example, quadratic loss, these squares- and then we had regularization. We have spent a lot of time talking about rich regularization, right, Something that you did on your homework. Expect some questions in the midterm on that, Okay. And then we talked a little bit about the soil. Okay, classification, We have taken a different approach, Right, We talked about logistic regression. We talked about Svm. it's not clear that it has this structure, But it turns out it does If you look closely. And classification can also be written as loss function, loss regularization, Okay, And the regularization again can be l, 2, l, 1.. Okay, But if you look closely then you'll see that I can have a logistic loss which is log of one plus e to the power, minus YY hat, and y hat is the predicted variable. And again, it may not be easy to see, but even in the case of Svms you have something called the hinge laws which is maximum 0, 1 minus YY hat. Okay, And this comes from the observation of sigh eyes, Right, if, if Xi is correctly classified, then the psi I equals 0, if not, it is sci-ye. Okay. So, and- and you can see it from over here, over here, Okay, so psi I sometimes will be greater than 0. But if it is exactly classified right, then the psi eyes will be equal to 0.. Okay, And what you can show is that the if I plot, why, why have on the x-axis- Well, ironic that y is all on the x-axis, But that's- whereas if I have minus 1, 0, lost one, okay, then hinge loss is. maybe I should pursue the green inch loss. Is this sorry, The sorry, The exact loss is this: okay, The exact classification loss is this: hinge laws is 0 over here, and then linearly it's a hinge function. It hinges over here. and logistic loss, Okay, is something that is an exponential and goes this or log of this exponential. this is logistic loss And this is no choice. Okay, sorry, I had to go through this last part a little quickly. I'm happy to explain it a little bit more next time we meet. But questions, Okay, sorry for taking a few more minutes, But thanks for listening And I will see you on Wednesday and remember your homework is coming up, is due on Friday and we have a midterm next Wednesday. Okay, thank you, It's.