okay, we'll continue. I think today will be the last lecture that we will have on regression. last time what we did was we continued kind of with the review of linear algebra and really concentrated on, you know, the SVD. SVD is a very important decomposition. it pretty much tells you all there is to know about a particular Matrix. It exists for any Matrix and it is this decomposition, U, Sigma, V, transpose. and we talked about the full SVD and also something called either the thin or the reduced SVD. but also, you know, you can truncate the SVD at any K. you can, you know, if the full SVD is U, Sigma, V, transpose, as given over here, right, the thin, the. the thin SVD is sometimes called this U hat, which takes where m is greater than equal to n, and you take the first n singular vectors, U hat, Sigma hat, V, had, transpose. but you can truncate it at any K. you can just take U1, U2, for example, or U1, U2, u3, and then take the corresponding singular values- they are of course ordered in decreasing order- and then also the corresponding v's, and that is sometimes called the K truncated SVD. and one of the really nice properties of the SVD is that that gives the best rank K approximation to the given Matrix, right? for example, here you know, if you have a given Matrix a and you want to find out the best ranky approximation of this Matrix, then you can basically just take, you know, U, K, Sigma K, VK transpose. where UK is n by M by K, maybe I should write it over here: Sigma U, UK belongs to our M by K, Sigma K belongs to r, k by K and VK belongs to R NYK, okay, and that gives you the, the, the S, the best singular value, best truncated, best rank ranky approximation. okay, then we went back to Le squares regression and we saw that LE squares regression, if you analyze it using the SVD, it's just the orthogonal projector onto the rain space of the design Matrix, which is X transpose, right, which is made of the training samples. today we will kind of talk a little bit more about regression, some of the issues that there are with just doing regression as we've talked about it, for example e squares regression- and talk about something that is really needed to make the regression better, which is regularization in regression, and there we'll look at a particular way to regularize which makes the prediction better, and we will see that we can analyze this method, called Ridge regression, quite well by looking at the singular value, decomposition. okay, reminder that regression is, you know, I have training data and XI, Yi, XI is D dimensional D features the Y's. since we are talking about regression, these are real numbers and linear regression is basically taking a linear combination which is W + W1, X1 + W2, X2 plus WB, XD. all right, it's the prediction for a new, unknown X Val. okay, now, even though I've called it linear regression, sometimes you can kind of do nonlinear regression using this scheme. let's talk about a particular example which I will use to motivate U, the need for regularization. let's think about polinomial, interp, interpolation, or polinomial F. okay, and we'll talk about, you know, the simplest case, which is univariate polinomial F. okay, what do I mean by that? okay, in this case, what I will say is that, you know, we have just one single value of x. okay, my D is equal to 1. okay, but what I will do is I will derive some nonlinear features from X. I will take X and I will map it onto something called f of x. okay, I'm going from r, d. okay, and in this particular case, it is D equal 1 to R. let's say d Prime, f of x is of Dimension, D Prime. okay, and in particular, the way we can think about polinomial fitting is to think about f of x as the monomials X, x², X, Cub to x to the power D, or or X to the^ M, let me not reuse, okay. okay, I guess I've used D Prime. in this case, m is equal to D Prime. okay, if I want to do linear prediction, the polinomial fit at X, we'll see, is equivalent to to linear regression for p ofx. okay, let's think about what linear regression of f of x is. right. and let me call that as Z. if I say that this Vector is z. okay, remember what is linear regression for a vector Z? it is W plus W1, Z1 plus W2, Z2 plus W M, ZM. okay, and in this case, my Z, as I've said, the components of it are the power, the ith value. the ith component of this Vector Z is x to the power. I. I have W + w1x + w2x, 2+ w m, XM, and many of you might have seen this problem before. right, what you are trying to do is you're trying to fit a polinomial to a, a univariate polinomial, to a given data. this is a technique. that is many times. you know you're you're using linear regression but you're doing a nonlinear fit because the different powers of X are nonlinear in X of the features of X. this is not that uncommon and can. you can apply it even when X has Dimension greater than one. you typically take, you know your given Rd and you can map it onto r d Prime. typically, D Prime is much, much greater than D, for example. here m is much, much, could be much greater than one, right, and you basically have the way you we denote it, as you take X and you do a map with a, a nonlinear map called Fe, and then we'll do prediction using few effects. okay, let me give you, show you some examples, okay, of polinomial fitting and let me share my screen. okay, you guys can see my screen and this is an example from this textbook by Chris Bishop. okay, hopefully all of you can see it. okay, you know, here's an example that you know you might want to recognize this at the classification problem. but here is the problem that we are talking about right here. think of, you know, a particular X. X is given over here, right, and this is the value that you want to fit the y- axis, right, you have basically X, comma, and then you have, you know, you have the value at X1, you have a value at another point, x, X2, you have a value at another Point, X3, and on right, but for a particular x, what you want to do is you want to fit a polinomial right. Y in this case is a polinomial, and you can see, that is exactly what we are talking about and it is linear regression. on F ofx, where the component, the ith component, of the vector f of x is X to ^ I, right and over here, the in the green line line is shown the kind of fit that you would kind of think is natural for this data set, right. notice that this fit does not exactly pass through all these points. okay, but let's see what happens when you try to vary capital M. okay, you, of course, you know we can do Le squares regression. this is just the sum of squares error function. and now think about what a zeroth order polinomial is. well, a zero order polinomial says that I'm just fitting things by W, KN, okay, and that's it. and you might say, okay, what should the value of w not be? and you know, if you do the math it'll end up being the average of all the Y values, but it is just a. this red line is the fit that you would get if you just take m equal to Z and you can right away say that, hey, you know, that's probably not a very good value of M to take right, if my goal is to fit this set of points, then you can say, okay, I can increase capital M and if I make capital m equal to 1, then I get a straight line. and this is the straight line you'll get if you fit it to this set of points. now how many points are there? 1, 2, 3, 4, five, 6, 7, 8, nine, 10 points. okay, you get that. that again seems. you know it's better than a, than a constant, but still you can visually see that it's not very good. let's try to increase M, and this time to m equal 3, and you can see that it's now kind of getting better right. m equal to 3 is this value right now. from the theory of polinomial you know that a third degree polinomial can have kind of three roots and you can see that you know there is one going to be one root, or the value of the polinomial: zero here, one here and then one over here. okay, the polinomial will kind of oscillate, right, because there are these roots, and then you can say, okay, I can. obviously the fit got better as I went from m equal 0 to m = 1, 1 to m = 3. let's try to make it even better. let's try something well much higher. ninth order: polom. oh, and look at this fit now. this red line is the fit. now anybody wants to kind of say whether this is a good fit or not. that's terrible. remember, our goal is prediction. okay, if it was inter, one of the things that you will notice, the reason I think, hormos, you're saying it is terrible, is that you know, it just oscillates very wildly, right. and but note that at all the points that were given in the trading set, it passes exactly through them. okay. but remember, our goal is not polinomial interpolation, which means to fit the polinomial exactly. at that point some of you might have taken a numerical analysis Course and there you might have used polinomial interpolation and clearly, if there are 10 points, for example, if there are two points, you can fit them exactly through by a line. if there are three points, you can fit them with a polinomial of degree 2 and, in general, there's a theorem that says that if there are m+ one points, you can fit it with a polinomial of degree M. that means you'll make zero error. but remember, that's not our goal here. our goal is to be able to predict at a new Point. Let's suppose an X over here, it does fine over here, right, okay. and even if you do polinomial interpolation- by the way, this is not, this is not good. good people do other things: piecewise pols. what is is happening over here? okay, what is happening here- and this is the first time you're seeing this, and this is a big problem in machine learning, where you are trying to overfit, you're trying to fit too well to the training data. but remember, our goal is what's called generalization. yes, you want to fit to the training data, you know, and you want the training data to be representative of the final task, right. but the goal is to predict at some new point. okay, if you look at the, typically, what you can do is you can divide your data. or you have a training set and a test set, right, the training sets. what happens is in this place, as you increase the degree of the polinomial, you can see that it decreases. okay, sorry, the training set is in, is in blue and you can see it as decreases. and I said a 9th degree polinomial will fit these 10 points exactly. the training error decreases to zero. okay, but the test error, which is a new point, when I try to predict on this, the training error kind of declines but then it shoots up and that's this phenomenon called overfitting. that means you've overfit too much to the training data. your predictions will not be good for a new point or the test data. Okay, and why is it happening over here? if you look at the polinomial coefficients, you'll see what might be happening. right, with m equal to Z, I had a coefficient of 0.. one9, right, and I I'm guessing that that is the mean of all the Y values over here. with m equal to 1, you see that you have coefficients of the order of one. m equal to 3, the coefficients are kind of slightly higher. right, it's 25 and 17. but look at what's happening with m equal to m = 9. the coefficients are becoming really big. and the reason they are becoming really big is what's happening is that some values become very large and some values become very small. that's why you'll see that you know you have very large positive values, very large negative values and they somehow cancel to give you zero error at the training data. on the training data, okay, One symptom of overfitting is that my coefficients, right, are getting very large. you can think of that as that your, your predictor, is getting a little bit more complex, right with you know what, and that's one in. in this case, it manifests by these very, very large values. okay, what do we do then? what should we try to do, right? well, remember that far you know, we talked about the error on the training data. this was the error on the training data, and we are looking at Le squares regression. we take the squared error and we are trying to decrease it. but we've seen that just decreasing it isn't the best idea, because you can overfit. okay, the model is becoming too complicated and it's trying to overfit simple model is better. in this case, what happens is that this manifest in the coefficients becoming too large. then what you can then do is you can say, okay, I will not. my goal is not to just fit the training data right, I'm going to do something called regularization, which means that I'm going to penalize my coefficient, two large values of my coefficients. this is called this particular regularization. where this is the two Norm square is the Ridge regularization and Lambda is a parameter that kind of Trades off between the fit to the training data and the complexity of the model. Okay, for example, if Lambda equal to zero, we'll be back to our previous case where we are just fitting to the training data and we might get to complicated a model, we might overfit. On The Other Extreme, if we take Lambda close to, let's say, very large in the limit, we take it to Infinity, right? our W will be, you know, in some sense constant or even zero, right? because if I take this to Infinity, what I will get is that you know W should be all zeros and that's not a good predictor. typically you want Lambda to be, to be good and ideally what you want is that you know over here you know we had this m if you kind of look at a value of Lambda over here, typically that's what will happen: that when you have too large a model, it'll be too large a Lambda, it'll be a very simple model. your training as well as your error will be high test error. as you then start decreasing Lambda, your test error will keep on declining, but then, as you make your Lambda close to zero, you'll overfit and your test error will start increasing. okay, let me now stop sharing the slides and move back to [Music]. I see, sorry, I'm just looking at the at the chat and I think, PRI, you kind of foresaw what I was going to say and, yes, this is struggling from overfitting. okay, let me go back to my. okay. okay, now what we will do is we will do Ridge regression. okay, let me. I'm going to contrast it with just the linear regression that we did. let me talk a little bit about R regression over here. let me write it over here: R regression. okay, the goal in retrogression is to minimize a combination of fit and regularizer. okay, remember the fit, since we are still talking about regularization- sorry, we're still talking about regression- and the squares regression. the fit is measured, this and then I have regularization, which is Lambda, W2, Norm, square, square. it's the sum of the squares of the coefficients. and, just to contrast things, draw a line over here. right, our regularly squares regression, which we have examined far, was just minimum of x, X. transpose wus, y to S. okay, and remember that in this case, what was our solution? the solution was: you know the normal equations. you can take the gradients or you can do the geometric analysis, which is: XX transpose, W, star is equal to x, *, y right equal to w star, which are the coefficients being equal to x, x transpose, inverse time XY. okay, well, what is the solution over here? okay, well, I'll leave it as an exercise. you can again mimic what I did for Le squ regression, and it's not not really complicated at all, right, and what you get is, if you take the gradient and you set it equal to zero, you'll see that the resulting equation that you will get is basically very similar, except Lambda makes An Occurrence, and Lambda makes An Occurrence in this way: XX transpose plus Lambda i, w star is equal to X1. okay, you can see that. you know, there is seemingly not much difference. there's XX transpose here, there's XX transpose here, but here there's a Lambda I and, as a result, my optimal coefficients are x, x transpose, plus Lambda I, inverse time, XY. and if you think about it right, what's happening over here is that earlier, my this inverse value, remember, as I was going from M = to 0, 1 to 9, you know these values were becoming very big, w star was getting very large, and what ends up happening is that when you do Lambda right, it dampens things and you're taking the, the inverse of not XX transpose but XX transpose plus Lambda I. any questions, by the way, if there, if there is a question that comes up on the chat- because many times I don't pay attention to the chat while I'm lecturing- somebody can just, you know, just say, hey, there's a question on the chat, okay, there's no question right now. let's, let's look at now how these compare. okay, now the in Le squares regression. we saw last time that prediction on training data. okay, remember, the prediction on training data is always going to be X transpose, W star. okay, and that's just going to be X transpose times. W star is given over. here it's XX transpose, inverse X, Y. similarly, over here, the prediction on training data is X transpose, sorry, X transpose W star. and now I have X transpose and my w star is XX transpose plus Lambda. I inverse time x. very similar, right. but now let's see how the singular value decomposition can help us in analyzing this. okay, not talking about computation, but just to analyze what is going on. remember, we did this last time also, we did X transpose, let's be, you know. let's look at the SVD of X transpose, Okay. then if you do, XX transpose is equal to V, Sigma, U transpose, U, Sigma, V transpose, and this is equal to V, Sigma, squ, V transpose. and if I look at XX transpose, inverse, that's going to be V, Sigma minus 2, V transpose, okay. and then when I want to look at the prodiction which is X transpose, W star, which is X, XX transpose, inverse, X transpose, W star, that is going to be what is that going to be? sorry, I think I may have. let's see. sometimes I get clipped up between the transposes. it is X transpose and X over here, okay, it's U, Sigma, we transpose. and then from here I have V, Sigma minus 2- Vose, remember, I'm just repeating things from last time- okay, and then I have V, Sigma, U transpose, right, and what happens is that this gives me identity, this gives me identity. I get U, Sigma, Sigma minus 2 Sigma, U transpose, and that's equal to u, u transpose, okay, with uu transpose times. again, I made a typo over here. this was y. okay, it's taking your, the given data, the given training data, you form a vector and then you project it onto the space, the range space of X trans space. okay, this is- I can also write this as summation of UI: UI transpose y. okay, I = 1, 2 and t + one, where the is the dimensional. okay, and this is [Music] orthogonal projection on to range space of. let's look at what happens in the case of R regression. okay, let's do something similar. right again, my X transpose is equal to U, Sigma, V transpose. same thing, thing as before. again, I have now remember that in this time I have, I have XX transpose equal to V, Sigma, squ, V transpose. and what is XX transpose plus Lambda I? earlier I had XX transpose, inverse, okay, but now I have X transpose, x, x transpose plus Lambda I, okay, well, I can write this as V time, Sigma s + Lambda i v transpose. and that's because V is n byn, it is square, right, and that gives me the identity. I can write Lambda inside, okay. then I look at X transpose, W star, and I get X transpose, x, x transpose plus Lambda I inverse time XY. very similar, right, except instead of XX transpose in inverse, I have XX transpose plus Lambda I inverse, and then I can just substitute from here, right, XX transpose plus Lambda I inverse is equal to V, Sigma s + Lambda. i v transpose, inverse of this, and that's just equal to V, Sigma s + Lambda. I, inverse of V transpose. okay, because V transpose is the inverse of okay. and then my prediction is: X transpose, W, Star, right, I have U, Sigma, V transpose V, Sigma s + Lambda. I inverse, V transpose, 3, Sigma, Vose. bear with me because finally, when we come to the end, we will kind of see a quite a beautiful explanation what rid regularization is doing. but you know, we have to kind of go through the, through the algebra. okay, again, this is equal to Identity, this is equal to Identity, and what you get is U, Sigma, Sigma s + Lambda, I inverse, and sigma * U. okay, and earlier, remember that when Lambda was equal to zero, then these would have all canceled out, okay. but this time Lambda is not equal to zero, right, things don't cancel out. what is this Matrix? this Matrix? what is this? if you think about it? it's, remember, it's a diagonal matrix. Sigma has, you know the little Sigma on the diagonal. here is the first element of this matrix, it's Sigma 1, squar that comes from this Sigma and the sigma. and then, since it's the inverse of a d Matrix, the elements of the diagonal elements of this Matrix are basically just the inverses of the corresponding diagonals. it becomes Sigma 1 s / Sigma 1 s + Lambda. the 22 element is Sigma 1, Sigma 2 s- ided, Sigma 2 s + Lambda, and all the way okay, and it's Sigma D ² / Sigma D ² +. it's a diagonal matrix, Zer, on the off diagonals. okay, and if I want to get a similar representation over here as here, right, if I take this, then what I get is that this is equal to summation of I = 1 through D + 1. Sigma i s ided, Sigma i² + Lambda. time, UI, UI, trans, and I guess, instead of D still go D, then this goes still D + one. now, what can you say about this, this coefficient, remember? when Lambda equal to zero, it's equal to one. when Lambda equal to zero, okay, but in general, it is less than equal to one, it's equal to one. when Lambda equal to zero, as Lambda becomes bigger, the denominator keeps on becoming bigger and it starts going towards zero. let's, let, let's look at that again. okay, if my Sigma i s, which is this I singular value, is much, much bigger than Lambda, then what happens to this number? Sigma I S ID, Sigma i s + Lambda: okay, if Sigma I square is much, much bigger than Lambda, this will be nearly equal to Sigma i s / Sigma i s and will be equal, is nearly equal to one, in particular if Lambda equal to Z. right, but now let's see what will happen. if Sigma i s is much smaller than Lambda, then I have Sigma i s / Sigma i s + Lambda and this will be approximately equal. to remember, Sigma I square, that will stay in the numerator, and sigma I sare + Lambda, when Sigma I square is negligible compared to Lambda, is going to be Lambda and that is going to be nearly equal to zero. okay, what R regression does- and we are able to only do this analysis by looking carefully at the singular value decomposition- what R regression does is it shrinks the small singular values to Z. okay, any questions? far, I think you should. many people should have questions, right. okay, just to repeat the difference, what ends up happening over here is: you have this Matrix X transpose. it has D+ One Singular values and they can vary in magnitude. the first singular value can be much larger than the d+1 singular value. in particular, if x transpose is not full rank, suppose the features are identical, right, then Sigma d+1 can be equal to zero. but what linear regression does is kind of it eliminates Sigma. Sigma over here, Sigma is not over here. it treats each singular value to have the same importance and it basically just do a projection on the entire space. but what can happen is that what can end up happening is that, oh sorry, that some of these singular values could be very small. when you take the inverse, or minus Sigma, minus 2, this could be very big. okay, the coefficients can blow up in the prediction. and what red regression does is that it the large singular values. when Sigma I sare is greater, greater than Lambda, then it basically does the same thing as R regression, as Le squ regression: it basically keeps them at one. hey, indit, there's a question on the chat by rishab. yeah, go ahead, rishab, you can feel free to ask me a question. I just would wanted to clarify, on the right side, when we're were going over the equations for Ridge regularization, what happened to the Y term? did that get canceled out somewhere? oh, thank you for bringing that to my attention. I'll just add that back in. is that good? yeah, thank you. yeah, there's another one by me. there's another one. yes, can we say small me, Muhammad? can we say small Sy values or noise in the data and regularization leads to not over fitting to the noise? yeah, I think that's kind of a valid way of looking at it. does that answer your question? M? yeah, and sometimes remember that we are. you know, when you're running on the computer you can't represent a real number, exactly right. you represent numbers as floating Point numbers. whenever you do an operation, there's some error in it. many times when you get these small values, you cannot trust that, and what Ridge regression is doing is in some sense kind of eliminating them, but in a smooth way. notice that you know. here's another thing we could have done right. what if we had done the following that you know for this is shrinkage? what if you had done some hard shrinkage? let me clarify what I mean. what if I had said that you know I'll take the sigma I sare, as is for IAL, to 1 through, let's say, K, and then I will take Sigma i s and replace it by zero for i = k + 1 through d plus one? I could have done that also right. what I've done above is it's a smooth change, but I could have done this. and that all that is saying is that I'm now using the K truncated SVD, because if you look at it carefully then it'll just be the that you're taking the K singular values as is and you're truncating the rest of them to zero. okay, and that is also kind of a valid thing that you can try to do, right, I mean you can. I think Ridge regularization is kind of more accepted in the. in the language of modern deep learning it's sometimes called weight Decay. okay, but you could potentially also set the small singular values explicitly to zero, whereas here they are kind of being gradually set to zero. okay, and remember, and for example over here, it could happen that all the singular values are large, in which case you know it won't make that much of a difference. okay, I think this is, you know, very most people when they look at R regression, right, they see this okay and it's kind of a good motivation and you can say that you know you don't want your model to be too complex, you don't want your W to be small, but then when you kind of look at the solution, you know this is. there's another question by R. yeah, let me finish you. basically, you know, get this. the solution is this and what it says is to obtain, to solve for this minimum W. that's equivalent to saying that you're going to take the small singular values and start ignoring. okay, what was the question by somebody? R? is there a property? oh, yes, Rees, you cannot speak, but that's the definition of SVD, right? if I go back to my previous lecture, when we talked about the SVD, we arranged them in this way: right, the sigma 1 is greater than equal to Sigma 2 is greater than equal to Sigma n. they are increased in decreasing order. does that answer your question? R, I guess you said you can't speak, but I'm hoping you can say yes, just Ming Sing. well, okay, I'm not sure what you are asking, rites, but rid regression does not do, does not just remove the small singular values and set them to zero. R regression does exactly what I gave over here. it's essentially taking the I sing value and replacing it by Sigma squid, Sigma square + Lambda, and that has the property that when Sigma square is very large, much bigger than the, the regularization coefficient Lambda, then the sigma Square will be, essentially, you know what you're doing is that coefficient is one, and when Sigma square is very small, then it is Sigma Square ID Lambda which will tend to zero, but it's not exactly zero. an alternate way could be to do this shinkage, where you set the small singular values to zero, okay, and you keep the large singular values as is. that's also a a way to do things, but it's not the same as r regularization, r regularization, and if you now think about doing this on the computer right, to do hard regularization you need to know the SVD. to do r ization you don't need the SVD. all I'm doing is I'm showing an analysis. for example, if you want to solve this problem, then you don't need to find the SVD effects. you can do it using, you know, py, de composition, Q, DEC composition and on, or you can use an iterative algorithm to do the solution. okay, and I think you'll see in the next, in the first, in the first homework that we'll assign on Monday, when you look at this collaborative filtering problem, you know which is. let's suppose you are given a whole bunch of movies and ratings by users of movies then, and you then want to predict the rating of a movie by a given user, then you will see that you know the algorithm that you will use in your homework will not need you to compute the SVD, because the SVD, finally, is quite an expensive competition to do here. what it's doing is it's really un, helping us to understand what is going on, but you typically will not solve this problem by Computing the SVD. that's why doing this hard shrinkage is something that is much more expensive, whereas Ridge regularization is much more. you know it can be done without the SVD, but it can be interpreted as doing some changes to the singular. okay, does that clarify things? yeah, that's a pretty important point. the singular value decomposition is is a very good tool, but it's quite expensive. and when we talk about very large data sets and the analysis of that, typically you don't not, you don't compute, you will not be able to compute. okay, let's look at another view of R regularization. okay, Ridge regression- far, we've said you know, minimize X, transpose wus, y squar + Lambda time 2, normal squar. okay, this problem is a little equivalent to the following problem. okay, to the following: okay, take the same objective as D squ regression. but then you say: I don't want my coefficients to grow too much. I'm going to put a constraint: that my W2 Square should be less than equal to C or some C. over here the ridge, the, the tradeoff between regularization and fit to the data is Lambda, and over here it is C. okay, the. the following is a constrainted optimization problem. okay, this problem, which is typically how R regularization is posed, is equivalent to this constrained optimization problem, and the reason I mention mention in the last part is that we can geometrically kind of try to understand what is happening right and it'll end. help you understand a different kind of regularization, which is when we don't regularize by the sum of squares but we regularize by some of absolute values. instead of L2 Norm Square, we can regularize by the L1 Norm, which leads to what is known as the L, which you might have heard about. okay, geometric interpretation of this above constraint optimization problem. okay, what you can show is that if I look at this function, our Le squares function, then it looks the following: okay, it's. if I look at the contour map or level sets, and I'll explain what level sets are- okay, if I look at: okay, level sets are where FW is a constant. okay, the contour map is something looks this: these are ellipses and I'm not showing that over here, but it can be shown- and this, each of the contour maps, corresponds to FW = to C1 for some particular C1, okay, and this one would correspond to FW equal to C2, and C2 is less than C1, okay, and this value over here is going to be FW equal to Z. this is the minimizer, this is the d s solution. and now, if I look at my constraint set, right, let me, this is my constraint set right. and if I look at that, okay, if I fix a particular C, I guess I should have used different notation. let's see, maybe I'll change this C to okay. okay, let me just say R for radius for some r. okay, this is typically going to be R is the radius, and what I'm saying is that my X Norm of x² is less than equal to R, and what I'm saying is my constraint set is this I want only- sorry, I wrote WX, but it's w, my. the only W's that I want are within this: the solution of r regularization, or the, the constraint version of R regularization, is that you basically look at the level sets and the first time the level set meets the constraint set. okay, that is the r regularization solution. okay, this is another interpretation of R regularization. right, you're minimizing F of w. it will be minimized over here. if you just looking at F of w, which is the Le squares problem, that gives you the Le squar solution. okay, but that's not what you want, because this W magnitude might be very far, it might be very far from the origin. as a result, these w values could be very large. you want these W values to be small. you have this constraint that my w values cannot have some squar to be bigger than R they must be is less than equal to R. but geometrically, the minimum value of this constraint in optimization problem is when the level sets first hit this R radius, R sphere. okay, that is an interpretation of rid regularization. any questions about that? is there a relationship between R and Lambda? what's that? a relation? relationship between R and Lambda? Yeah, basically, for every Lambda there exists in our, but there's no straightforward relationship. thank you, I see, yeah, but basically you know you can either work with RS or you can work with lambdas. right, and solving a constraint optimization problem is generally numerically a little bit more difficult. people, whenever they solve it, they really look at this version of the problem, okay, and then they typically, you know, we'll use either an itative, you know, depending on the size of the problem, either they'll use a very an interative algorithm- it's very large- or they can use the kesy decomposition or even the SV. okay, but the important point to not is that this can be represented as a con. this is equivalent to a constraint, optimization, and one of the reasons I'm I'm Sor, sorry, go ahead. oh, I just said Thank you, got it sure, yeah, and the. and one of the reasons I'm talking about this is that there's another kind of regularization that is very popular, or maybe used to be popular, is called lasso. okay, and lasso has the following objective, same objective as the squares: regression in terms of the data, fit X, transpose W - y to n². but now, now the regularization is changed to be the one Norm of seemingly a pretty in aquous change, right, instead of some Square, of some of the squares of w, we are penalizing the sum of the absolute values. okay, it's basically one Norm of w instead of [Music], squ. two. nor people use this, and one of the reasons people use this is the following: that lasso many times leads to a solution with sparse W. okay, and what do I mean by sparse W? that is coefficient Vector with many zeros, and you can think of that as you know. it's a, basically a more or s onus model, ponus, right, remember that I'm taking a linear combination of the D features, right, d could be very large in Modern Problems, D could be as large as a million. what that means is that you now have a coefficients of million features. okay. but somebody can ask: okay, can you give me a solution which has still a good solution, a good fit? can you give me a solution which has lesser coefficients? it's a more interpretable model. what happens is that the lasso results in a more parsimonious mod. and why is that? okay, and now we can see that if I look at lasso, okay, I can think of it as being equivalent. let me say that it's equivalent to the following constraint optimization problem, the same thing that we did before. I'm following that foll constraint optimization problem, which is: minimize w, x, transpose W - y², such that what is the constraint? now? that Norm of w, but the one Norm of w is less than equal to R. now, if I look at the, if I draw it geometrically, what is the norm of w? less than equal to R. I wonder if I did that before right? for example, if I go back to the linear algebra review when we talked about different Norms. oh yeah, look, I did that here, right? Norm of w is less than equal to one. is this set right? because this has boundaries. one0, the corner points as one, 0, 0, 01 and on and in between. these are straight lines, whereas the two Norm, the constraint set, is a sphere. this has Corners, this boundary has corners and that's why it'll give part solution. okay, this constraint set will be sorry, my drawing is not the best, but it's going to be. Norm of W1 is less than equal to 4. okay, and given my data, my, you know, suppose it the same problem. problem, I'll basically get something. this, my F of w, right, if I draw the level sets of that, it's going to be something. this, and then the solution will be the first time it hits. and because this has Corners, you can see that the solution is here. this is the L solution is usually Sports. now, remember I'm drawing this in two Dimensions, but you know this is happening in D Dimensions when there are D features. D is a million, your d dimensional space. it's not going to be only one variable is negative or is non negative, but there may be many variables. okay, and remember, there is the regularization coefficient, right, as you increase Lambda, right, that basically means that you are decreasing R, right, and you can, you will basically get bar Solutions. okay, any questions about that? sometimes it's also called the contour map. you probably seen these kinds of maps when you do hiking and, on right, this is a convex function. you know it's this and every level set is a ellipse. okay, any questions for me? okay, let's recap. we started the course of talking about regression. we looked at Le squares, regression, the sum of the squares. I think right in the beginning there was a question: why are we looking at some of squares? and you've seen that we've developed kind of a, you know, some really nice intuition, and one of the big reasons why we use some of squares is because it's in some s good to analyze, it's easy to analyze right. then we realize that, hey, you know we need some linear algebra for this. I did some linear algebra review. then we came back and said today, what we saw is that, hey, Le squares regression by itself is not a good predictive method because it can overfit, and that principle is very true of machine learning in general. this is a particular example where you don't want too complex a model model that fits your training data exactly, because that leads to overfitting. in the context of regression, we saw that we can prevent overfitting by penalizing the coefficients that we have, the coefficients W Ridge regularization is one way to do it and you can think of, you know, that has the interpretation when we look at the SVD, that you know you are kind of shrinking the small singular values towards zero and the large singular values towards one, but is not doing a hard operation on them. and then we saw that there's another regularization method called l. okay, and I kind of gave you some intuition as to why that leads to a more parsimonious or a sparo model where the coefficients have many zeros. as a result, the predictor is only using a few of the D features. okay, with that we are kind of coming to the end of how much regression we will do in this course. I will, on Monday I will give a lecture on collaborative filtering, which is, you know, recommendations by you know, a very important problem these days. right, which is collaborative filtering, recommendation algorithm, and on right, we will look at one particular way of doing collaborative filtering or recommendation, and that you know, back when the Netflix price happened was one of the leading methods. I'll talk about that method and see that that naturally, basically, is a regression problem. we'll- I'll do that lecture on Monday, give you your first homework on Monday. that will in involve programming, right, and then once I finish the collaborative filtering lecture, then from next, from next week onwards, Wednesday, I'll start talking about classification. okay, where the variable to be predicted is not real but is categoric: predict whether, for example, an email is spamm or not. okay, that's what is coming up in the course. okay, with that, we are at the end of the lecture. any questions on the material that we've seen far? excuse me, you mentioned that the lasso is not popular anymore. is there any reason for that specific reason? oh, when I say lasso is not popular, I mean basically everything has been taken over by Deep learning. I see VK is a more natural way for, yeah, weight Decay is, you know, just naturally comes up in deep learning. and then, if you try to get Spar Solutions, you have to deal with the fact that it's not a differentiable function and on, typically, I haven't really seen much use of lasso kind of regression in deep learning. thank you got it, but it's still. it's still very important, it's good to understand and maybe there are some cases where we, kind of you know, may want to look at L1 regularization even in, you know, deep learning applications. yeah, I think interpretability is still a big issue. well, that's a huge issue with. I mean, if it's a big big issue with rid regression, it's an even bigger issue with deep learning. but I think generally, generally, what we've seen is that the quality of the approximation people care more about than interpretability. in particular, people generally might care more about, you know, the goodness of a recommendation algorithm than being able to interpret it. yeah, makes sense, thank you, that, that is just, that's just true. okay, I see some comments. got it, thank you, thank you. okay, good, that ends this lecture and I will see you on Monday. bye.