class. we've talked about regression. we took one lecture and did a review on linear algebra and last time I did a review on, just, you know, simple probability Theory. and then, towards the end of the lecture, we talked about, you know, the multivariate normal distribution or the multivariate Gin distribution. and today I'll talk about, you know, the first kind of lecture on classification. look at some basic methods. we'll end up working looking at logistic regression and support Vector machines over the next coming weeks. today is kind of the first lecture on classification. let's start. okay, today I will talk about classification. very similar setup, identical setup essentially, to the regression problem. we have a training set that's made of X eyes and Y eyes: X1, y1, X2, Y2, xn, YN, okay, and x i are, you know, think of them as some D dimensional vectors, feature vectors. the goal, of course, here is that we don't have yis to be real numbers, we we have y, i to be essentially CL corresponding to classes. the goal is to learn a function f that predicts the class label, class label y, of some new point, X, okay, let's take a, you know, simple, motivating example. okay, let's consider the case where X is just a two-dimensional Vector, just two features, and suppose you know the distribution of, sorry, okay, suppose the distribution of points is the following: suppose you know these crosses or represent the X's that belong to class one and the circles are the X's that belong to class two. okay, this, let's. this is C1, this is C2. okay, you know just G. having drawn the simple figure, what would be be a good way to distinguish between these two classes? any thoughts, remember, you know, I basically just want a rule or a decision surface saying: you know what would I, how would I recognize the two classes? given a new X, right, suppose a new X comes to be here, what class would it give? would you give it E1, C1, C1, right. and then, given some point over here, I would give it C2, C2, right. what if I now start getting somewhere in between? what would be a good decision rule that you decide whether a new point x, which is given by two coord orates, belongs to one class versus the other. maybe the K near neighbors, K near neighbors? that's possible, yes, but you know, I'm giving you, I've given you kind of this visual right over here. there's a bunch of points here, there's a bunch of points here, and you might say, hey, look, maybe I can draw a line between these two, and everything on this side belongs to class C1, everything on this side belongs to class C2. okay, that could be a first kind of simple rule that we try and get right. and if you think about this right, suppose now I have these points have mean to be M2, mean of C2. and when I say mean of C2 I mean mean mean of all the training points in C2. and then suppose I have this over here which is, you know, the mean of C1, let's call it M1. okay, mean Vector, this is the mean of all the X's C. okay, and then what would be kind of the equation of this line? okay, well, it's equidistant from- I might choose it to be equidistant from- M1 and M2, right, that this distance is the same as this distance, right, and then, in this case, this equation or the locus of all points that is equidistant from m, M1 and M2, I can write this: okay, the squares are not needed, but it'll simplify things if I remove the squares. okay, this is the locus of points which are equidistant to M1 and M2. okay, and if I then expand it out, I can write this as: x - M1. transpose x - M1 = x - M2. transpose x - M2. okay, again, let me expand it out. I'll get X transpose x - 2, X transpose M1 plus M1 transpose M1. and then the right hand side is very similar, except I have M2 instead of M1. okay, and remember the, the locus of, and let me just kind of you know this kind of cancels out, right, and let me just take, you know, M2 minus M1 to one side. I'll get M2 - M1 transpose X, right, remember, M transpose X is the same as X transpose M, right, and I'm kind of dividing by two, throw out, and then, if I, if I take this to this side, I'll take this also to this side, and I'll get 12 of [Music] m, 1, SAR minus M2, 2. okay, and the locus of all the points is this, where this is equal to zero, okay, and now, if you think about it, this is, you know, I can think of a function y of X, which is basically this, which is M2 - M1 transpose x + 12 M1, SAR minus M2, 2. okay, and this is, you know, I can take. this is the locus of that line, right, locus of all those points that are equidistant from M1 to M2, and I call this the. you know, this is the decision surface, and far we haven't invoked any probabilistic modeling. we kind of just doing it out of intuition. far right, but the important thing to note is that this has the form of a what's called a hyper plane: W transpose X plus W. okay, if you think back to regression, right, we basically want would get a linear rule: W transpose X plus W, such that it fit the corresponding real label Y. and we are kind of doing a similar Thing by just this very simple modeling that we did. right, we had kind of class C1, we had class C2 and we just did a very simple modeling saying: hey, you know, let's just take the mean of class one, mean of class two, let me think about joining those two points and then the locus of all the points right, which are equidistance right, is given by this equation and I can get a very simple decision rule right. this is I call this a decision surface, and the reason is because you could get a very simple decision rule saying: if YX is greater than zero, right, then, basically, what I'm saying is that kind of the left hand side over here is greater than the right hand side, right, the distance from M1 is greater than the distance to from M2, and in this case I would say that X belongs to class 2 and if YX is less than zero, then X belongs to CL C1- okay, and the hyper plane has this formula right: where W is M2 - M1- okay, and W KN is half M1 s minus M2 s. you know, we've kind of done very kind of simple modeling right now and, as a result, my coefficients have been very the. the coefficients have been very simple, okay, if you remember, if you go back to the regression problem, remember that we basically got a least squares problem and then we basically got the normal equations and you had to find the W using the normal equations, which involved, you know, solving a system of linear equations. and then you could solve those linear system of linear equations in multiple ways. right, we could use kesy decomposition, we could use Kor decomposition. the numerically the best way would be to do the SVD, but it'll be much more kind of expensive. right here I've just done a very, very simple modeling, okay, and the solution is again now a linear classifier and in this case, in this very simple modeling, the computation is very simple to get the linear classified. but as we see that, you know, we'll be able to develop better methods. and again, the name of the game would be: how do you basically get a good linear classifier between, how do you find good coefficients, W, W1, through WD, when d, when X is dimension? okay, but first I kind of just want you to kind of visualize what is happening over here, have you? I guess most many of you might have heard the, the term hyperplane. okay, hyperplane is basically just a linear surface of Dimension D minus one. if I in D dimensions, then this is in dimension D minus one, right, for example? right in one dimension, sorry, in two Dimensions. this is just a line. but if you are in three dimensions, this would be a two-dimensional plane, and then in higher D Dimensions, it would be a D minus one dimensional linear surface. okay, let's just look at what the geometry is, because later on, when we talk a little bit bit about maximizing the margin and on, then we will need to understand the geometry of what is going on. right, it's just a, a hyper plane, right? let me just take this: a hyperplane that has this form: W transpose X plus W, KN, and the decision surface is that this is equal to zero. right. again, I'm going to just visualize it in two Dimensions, but many of these will basically extend to higher Dimensions. right, w is some Vector, this, okay, and the hyper plane, okay, is essentially normal to this. This is called the normal. that means perpendicular to the hyper. okay, why is it the normal? how can we justify it? right, for example, if I draw a normal surface, it'll be of this form: right, this is 90° right. and let's see, right, if I have this x right in D Dimensions, if x lies on the hyper plane, then it clearly satisfies this equation. right, that means it satisfies W. transpose x + W equal to Z. I can think of it a little bit geometrically and I can say: okay, let me divide this by the two Norm of w. now it becomes a unit Vector plus W, ided by the two Norm of w. okay, let me write: this is in this form: that this is equal to minus of this. okay, again, right now it's kind of algebraic, but you see that this is a projection of X onto the normal, to the hyper plane. okay, in particular, if I have that two points, X1 and X2, lie on the hyper plane, okay, then I have that W1 transpose. sorry, it's X1 and X2. w transpose X1 plus W not equals zero, and does w transpose X2 + W, which means that W transpose X1 - X2 equal to Z. okay, again, if I have, you know, a point X1 that lies on this hyper plane, I have a point X2 that lies on this hyper plane. this Vector right is X2 - X1 and that's why we say that this is normal, because you can see that it is normal to any X2 minus X1, anything lying on the, the hyper plane. W is normal to that. okay, this implies that W is normal or perpendicular to well, the points on. but generally we'll just say it is normal to the hyper. okay, and then, if I look at this closely, this is saying that when I project any X- right, this could be some random X, for example X1 or X2- it's saying that when I project this, this is a projection. okay, this length over here, how much is that? well, it's given over here. this is the projection and this length is equal to minus W / the two Norm of two. okay, this is often called the signed distance to the hyper. note that W, KN divided by Norm of w is a scalar. okay, W1 not might be positive or negative, and that's why we say that this is the signed distance from the origin to the hyper Point. sign distance, oh, from the origin. sorry, let me, sorry, let me just redo this. it's a sign distance from origin to the H. Okay, now you can kind of start, try to start kind of understanding the geometry. let me get just give a, you know, couple of quick examples. you know, when we do come to, for example, support, Vector machines and on, it'll help to understand this geometry, right, suppose I have, you know, X1 + X2, equal to 1, a simple Hy hyper plane. okay, over here, my w is the vector 1 one and W, KN is minus1. okay, what does it, the picture look? well, I have one one, sorry, I have one one, it is basically a vector, this right, that is w. and then my normal to the hyper plane is this: that means I have a perpendicular over here, okay, and then I have this is W transpose X+ W, equal to Z, and that's the same as 1, 1 transpose X1, X2 - 1 =. okay, and what is this distance? now? this distance, remember, that's the sign distance of the hyper plane to the origin and that is minus W, divided by Norm of w and the two Norm. okay, W, KN is minus1. W is = 1: 1. this is right. the two Norm of w is square root of two. okay, and w divided by Norm of w is equal to 1 / < tk2. okay, this is 1 /un. okay, hopefully that's clear. any question? questions on what I've done? what have I done? far right, I basically didn't really do any modeling, or did very simple modeling and just said, hey, you know, this is intuitively one way to get a decision surface, got the decision surface and realized that the decision surface is essentially a hyper plane and that we just spent a few minutes to try to understand kind of the geometry behind the hyper. okay, now let's try to do some actual probabilistic modeling and we'll see that when we do this probabilistic modeling we get something which is, you know, a little bit more General than what we did over here, right, where we got this particular decision surface. okay, let's, let's now do some probabilistic modeling. suppose I have the class C1 and I have the class C2. what I'm really interested in is finding probability. I can think about the classification problem as trying to find the probability of C1 given X and probability of C2 given X. okay, given my test point of the new point x, I want to Pro find the probability of C1 versus the probability C2. okay, I put this graphic things. okay. now let's take a look back at our previous lecture. right, recall the previous lecture. and let's look at base rule. okay, P of C1 given X is equal to P of x given C1. P of C1 ided P of X. okay, that is what we are interested in. this is often called the prior, in this case class prior. it's the prior probability of belonging to a particular class. this is what we are interested in, right, which is the posterior. that's what it's called. it's the poster interior and this is the data likelihood. this is where the modeling comes in. right, given class C1, what is the probability? what is p of x given C1? okay, similarly, I can do PC2 given X and of course, we are going to look at concrete examples by modeling in a particular way. this is p of x given C2 * P of C2. the denominator is kind of immaterial because typically what we will do is we'll use something called the map rule because, remember, the goal is to finally assign a class to this x right, the Mac map rule is the maximum, a posterior right probability. okay, what we will do is basically say that this is going to be: I'm going to look at P of c, i given X, pc1, when the two class problem, pc1 given X and PC, two given X- and then I will look at the I for which this is maximized and I'm going to assign that class to X. okay, that's what we are going to do, right, remember, this is just base R which we studied last time or which we recall last time. now let's look at different ways of kind of modeling the data, right, and let's look at a particular kind of normally distributed model or a gaussian model. suppose my X belongs to Rd, okay, let's look at a particular gaussian model. okay, and the gaussian model is saying that, hey, let's think of each class, or the points within each class, to be distributed according to a multivariate cusum distribution, in particular, P of x given CI. okay, is going to be. remember that for each class I can get the mean vector and the covariance Matrix right. it is equal to 1 divided by 2, pi d by 2 times the determinant raised to the power, half of the covariance Matrix. remember, I think last time I called this as debt of Sigma. but we'll have different formula this time. I will just use these two bars around the Matrix Sigma, around the co variance Matrix Sigma, and then I have e to the power minus half, xus, mui, mui being the mean of class. I transpose Sigma, I inverse x - M and let's think of this as the model of the data and maybe, you know, maybe just to complicated right at the beginning to do, okay, well, but let's, let's, let's see what happens. right, the map rule. how will we use the map rule over here? right, we are going to do. the map rule is AR, Max of what did I say? p of C, iix, right, P of CI, given X. this is now the logarithm. the log function is a monotonic function. I can basically just say log of PCI, given X, because the argmax is not going to change. I can take the argmax of P or I can take the argmax of log of P. let me take the log, because obviously there is an exponential sitting over here. it's a natural thing to do, okay, and then I expand it out by base rule. right, I have log of. I basically use what is given over here. okay, log of P of x, given CI time. P of Z. okay, note that the denominator does not really now play a role, because all you are interested in is looking at the argmax and both PC, one given X has P of X and PC2 given X has P of X in the denominator. that's common, we don't need to worry about it, right? this is base rule, okay. and then I taking the log of a product and that becomes log of b, x given c, i, plus log of P of C. okay, and this is what we have, right. if I do a gaussian model, then I have that log of PX, given CI is equal to. I basically take a log of this quantity, right? what is the log of this quantity? it is going to become equal to minus d by 2. log of 2 pi - 12. log of the determinant of Sigma: I, okay, and taking log of this is minus 12. this is why we took log, that this term becomes simpler. and this is this quadratic form. okay, and the decision surface, kind of analogous to what we did over here. right, here was the decision surface. the decision surface is going to be the XIs, where the posterior is equal, right, or the log of the posterior is equal. you can just say that it is equal to- and there are lots of, I guess, minus signs over here. right, I can take the minus log of P, C1 given X is equal to minus log of B, C2 given. move these outside this. okay, I'm just taking logm, right, and if I do the take the logs to be equal, right, what do I get? I get, I'm taking negative of this quantity, right, but now I have C1 on the left side, C2 on the right side. I'll get- and this is now the decision surface- d by 2 log 2, pi+ 12 log DET determinant of Sigma 1+ 12 x - mu1 transpose. Sigma inverse xus mu1. right, remember that I'm doing P of C1 given X. this is BX given CI. and then I have: well, I don't need to go far, that far, but I have plus log of PCR. okay, and remember I I took the negative of that. it is minus log of pc1 and the decision surface is that this equals d by 2 log 2, pi+ 12 log determinant of Sigma 2 plus 12 x - mu2 transpose. I missed a sigma 1 here. Sigma 2 inverse x - mu2. minus log of P of C2. now, this is a constant that will cancel. anything else cancels doesn't really right. I have Sigma 1 here, quadratic form here. that depends on mu1, Sigma 1 and log of this is the class prior. that is the general decision surface. but let's take some special cases. okay, let's take a special case one, okay, which is kind of the most common case, right, that you'll say, okay, let me just assume for Simplicity that my gaussians are uncorrelated. that means that you know, for class one, Sigma 1 equals identity. for Class 2, Sigma equal to Sigma is the coari Matrix is Iden. if that happens, let's look at the decision sols. then you'll see the terms run the left hand side start kind of cancelling with the terms on the right hand side. let me just write it out again: sorry, 12. log of Sigma 1. let me see if I can fit this into one line: x - mu1. transpose Sigma 1, inverse X1. looks I'm going to run out of space. ah, not too bad, plus or minus, minus. log of pc1. okay, if I plug in P2, the last one. ah, good, thank you, bc2. okay now if I plug in Sigma 1 equal to Sigma 2, right? well, determinant of identity is identity. sorry, is one. right, I'll basically get zero over here. right, I'll get zero over here, I don't need to worry about that. I'll get 12 x - mu1 transpose, and sigma 1 is now identity, Sigma 1- inverse identity of identity is identity. I'll just get x - mu1. then I get minus log of pc1 is equal to 12 x. x - mu 2, transpose x - mu2 - log e C2. okay, and now if I want to kind of get the expanded out just before, I'll see that it is half of X. transpose x - 2, mu1 transpose X plus mu1, transpose mu1. it should start reminding you of something that you've kind of seen, right. minus log of pc1 is equal to 12. Xpose x - 2 mu2 transpose X Plus mu2, transpose mu2 minus log PC2. the interesting thing that you will see and then you'll realize in a little while, is that X transpose X cancels, which means that the quadratic part of the decision surface does not play a role and the decision surface is linear. okay, and the decision surface is: you know, if I just bring this over to this side- there's a half over here- kind of just doing some algebraic manipulations, you'll get the decision surface is mu2 minus mu. mu1 transpose x + half. this is mu1 square, mu1 square. remember that if I don't put a subscript over here. it's the L2 Norm. okay, it's a sum of squares minus mu2 squar. from the other side, then I have a minus log of P C1, ided PC2 =. okay, you will notice that again my decision surface has the form W transpose x + W equal to zero. and what's interesting is that this W transpose X, okay, is mu2 minus mu1 transpose X? and that's exactly what we had seen over here: M2 - M1, mu2 minus mu1 and, and this term is also similar, okay, this term is also similar, without really kind of realizing it. what we had implicitly done over here was to model the classes probabilistically. where class C1 was I isotropic, that means it had a coari matrix equal to Identity- was class C2, and we were also assuming that the class priors were the same. okay, that pc1 equal to PC2, okay. but if we don't, then we see that we need this adjustment penalty, adjustment Factor. okay, I have W is equal to mu2 minus mu1 and I have W is equal to 12. mu1, 2 - mu2 [Music] s minus log of P C1 or divided by PC2. okay, and again I said, you know, you can think of this as that. I have Sigma 1 equal to Identity means it's kind of a spherical gaussian, I have Sigma 2 equal to Identity. if I have, you know, some point over here, this is the mean of one, over here, this is the mean of two. right, then I'm basically kind of joining these two points. and the decision surface is a normal and the position of this normal, or the position of this decision surface where, you know, the normal is mu2 minus mu1. okay, that depends on these quantities. okay, if, if, if class one is more likely, then this decision surface will shift to the right. if class two is more likely, then this decision surface will move to the left. okay, any questions? okay, now let's take the case where. let's take a second case where I don't assume that Sigma 1, equal to Sigma 2, is the identity. but I'll make the simplest, you know, the simpler I'll make the Assumption, or I'll model it such that the covariances are equal, they're not identity, but the coari Es are equal. because we want to understand what happens to the decision surface over there. because if you really look at this formula, right, let's reflect on this formula- this is a quadratic form, this does not represent a linear surface, right? but when Sigma 1 was the identity and sigma 2 was the identity, what we found is that this quadratic terms cancelled and it gave us a linear decision surface. let's see what happens when I assume that Sigma 1 equal to Sigma 2, but not necessarily [Music], necessarily identical. let's look at the decision surface. okay, somewhere above I had the decision surface. let's see. well, I can repeat this part, but at least let me make the simplifying thing where you know, if Sigma 1 equals Sigma 2, then this log of determinant will cancel, with this log of whatever. I don't need to carry it through and I think this should be enough. right, this captures. well, I need to put in the sigma inverse over here, Sigma inverse over here, and then I'll capture this term and then I'll capture this term. okay, the decision surface is the following, which is: 12 x - mu1 transpose, sorry, x - mu1 transpose Sigma. well, let me just call it. if it's equal, then we say that this is equal to Sigma. I have Sigma inverse x - mu1 minus log of pc1 is = to 12 x - mu2 transpose Sigma inverse x. - mu2 minus log of bc2. okay, if I kind of simplify, right, let's do that. it's equal to 12 x transpose Sigma inverse x. - 2 mu1 transpose Sigma inverse X, and this is to take care of. I need to be careful. plus mu1- transpose Sigma inverse. sorry, keeping on doing. Sigma 1. okay, Sigma inverse mu1, minus log of P. C1 is equal to 12. X transpose Sigma inverse x - 2. mu2- Sigma inverse x. + mu2 transpose Sigma inverse M2 minus log of PC2. okay, I'm hoping I've not made a mistake with the indices, but please call me out if I have. okay, but the thing that you know, this is all algebra, but you know you need to understand what really comes out of the algebra. what comes out of the algebra is: this is X transpose Sigma inverse X. this is also X transpose Sigma inverse X. they'll cancel out once again. we'll have a case where the quadratic term cancels out and we are left with a hyper plan. okay, that's the kind of main point that I'm trying to get across. this will basically mean in that I have mu2 minus mu1 transpose Sigma inverse X plus 12 of. I can write this as: let's see, can I write this as: mu1 + [Music] mu2- transpose Sigma inverse mu1 -2. right, you can check that. I can write. write it this, right, because the cross terms will kind of cancel out mu1 with mu2 and mu2 with mu1, okay, minus log of bc1, bc2 equal to Z. once again, I have that this is w and this is W, not this is w s. w is different. right, I have W transpose X plus W equal to Z. where W is equal to Sigma inverse mu2 minus mu1, it's not mu2 - mu1 but it is Sigma inverse * mu2 - mu1. okay, let's sorry, my laptop is not plugged in, let me just plug it in. this is kind of. let's look at what it means again geometrically, right, geometrically, remember the figure that I had last time where you know we were trying to say that I don't really need the coordinate axis over here. right, when I say that, you know some point, some multivariate gaussian has covariance Matrix, right, we looked at kind of the, the way the distribution looks, and we looked at the level sets of the distrib ition of P of X and you know you can, we did this right. that class C1 is this and you know it's kind of you can think of this as an ellipse. I mean it is an ellipse, okay, this would be, let's say, C1. it has, let's say, mean mu1, and the fact that this is an ellipse is kind of captured by that. it doesn't have a spherical shape. okay, it has an elliptical shape and if you remember last time we looked at you know, the way you can think about it is that you can look at the covariance Matrix. you can look at its igen value, decomposition, V Lambda, V transpose, and this would be the direction of maximum variance, which is V1, that corresponds to the largest igon Vector of Sigma 1, and then you would have the smaller ion vectors that correspond to the smaller ion values. okay, in this case, we're also assuming that you know mu2, you know the class C2. the mean is different, right, but the shape is the same. and why is that? because in this case we assume that the coari Matrix was identical to, between the two classes, Sigma 2 and the way they are tied to each other. in our current analysis, is that Sigma 1 equal to Sigma 2, equals, okay, and if, for example, Sigma 2 or mu2, is this U? maybe I shouldn't on that. if this is mu2, right, mu, remember, mu2 minus mu1, is this okay, but my decision surface is not this. let me draw in a different color, right? if before my decision surface would have been something this, let me just SL it up. if we ignored Sigma, okay, but now the decision surface is something which is: well, what is it? it is? let's see: what is Sigma? what is w normal to the hyper plane? is this? it's not mu2 minus mu1, but it is Sigma inverse Time mu2 - mu. okay, generally it'll be something which you know, maybe something this- how should I draw it? something? this, okay, and this is too clouded, but anyway, Sigma inverse mu2 minus. and the decision surface, remember, is perpendicular to Sigma inverse mu2 minus mu1. this is my decision surface and, of course, remember that this will be shifted to one side or the other depending upon the class prior. okay, you've now seen a case where you know, by doing probabilistic modeling, what have we done? far right, we have just by intu. in the beginning we said, hey, we'll just take, take the mean and think of the decision surface as a perpendicular bis sector of the line joining the two mean vectors. okay, and we got a simple decision rule. we saw that there's a geometric interpretation in terms of hyperplanes. then we try to do a little bit more principled probabilistic modeling. we modeled it simply in the beginning. as you know, I have unit Varian covariance for both C1 and for both C2- and then we saw that we got a decision surface which was very, very close to what we had developed first by intuition, other than the class prior, but one. this is a linear surface. it's a linear decision boundary, right and very close to what we had by intuition. but then we said, okay, can we do? maybe my data is does not have unit covariance. Suppose there is a dependence between the different features, that I have right. and if there's a dependence, that maybe what I can do is model it where Sigma 1 equal to Sigma 2, but I'll still keep the covariances to be the same in both class C1 and C2. and at the beginning it looks: hey, you know, maybe this will be a quadratic decision surface, but it turns out that you know things kind of cancel out and you still get a linear decision surface. that means you still get your decision surface surface to be a hyper plane. okay, but the hyper plane is no longer now this, it's no longer mu2 minus mu1 and, and you know, even your intuition would probably have said that this is not good. right, because you know, if you don't want to classify some point over here, some point over here, as belonging to C1, which you would have done if you basically had mu2 minus mu1, mu2 minus mu, mu1 as the normal to the decision surface, right, you see that the decision surface is Sigma inverse, mu2 minus mu1. okay, any questions? okay, let's come to the most General case now. and what is the most General case where the covariances Sigma 1 and sigma 2 are different? Sigma 1 could be, you know, maybe the points are in class C1, are distributed. you know this as before, okay. and maybe Sigma 2 is totally different, maybe it's distributed. this, okay, I have mu1, sigma1 over here. mu1 would be some point over here, and this is Sigma 1, right, the maximum I, Vector of Sigma 1, second maximum, and of course this could be in D dimensions. similarly, I have, let's say, mu2, and then I have Sigma 2, maximum I, Vector of Sigma 2, next one and on, okay, will the decision surface be linear? now, I don't think, because the quadratic- yeah, let's kind of just part- doesn't get cancelled out, right? yeah, let's me just kind kind of repeat it. and I need to be careful, right, which one I copy. because this one, I already made an assumption over here that Sigma 1 equal to Sigma, right, because I had this over here, let me kind of try to make sure that I copy the right thing and it is the decision. surface is 12 log of the determinant of Sigma 1 + 12 x - mu1 transpose Sigma 1, inverse x - mu1 is equal to 12 log of Sigma 2. okay, oh, and then there was a minus log V of C1 here. okay, plus 12 x - mu2 transpose Sigma, inverse x - mu2. minus log of PC. that's Sig 2, inverse, right, sorry, Sig. sorry, I'm trying to hurry up and thanks for catching. catching this, yeah, okay, you can see that you know the quadratic term over here. if I expand this out, quadratic term is 12 x transpose Sigma 1, inverse X, and 12 x transpose Sigma 2 inverse X. okay, they will not cancel. if Sigma 1 is not equal to Sigma 2. okay, then you'll B have some kind of quadratic surface over here. you know it can depend quite subtly on the shapes of Sigma 1 and sigma 2, but you know the surface could be something this or or different, right? I think there's a book by dud and heart which shows different Sigma 1es and sigma 2s and then the different shapes of the, the quadratic surface that you get. okay, you can see that. you know, when you do probabilistic modeling, things can get you know, a little bit more complicated. if you don't make simplifying assumptions, okay, remember that many times. you know you may not be. you're given the training data and that's all that you're given. this method will work well, right, if my modeling assumption is accurate, right, for example, my modeling assumption being that, hey, the you have a gaussian model for each class, and if that is indeed true, right, and you can test it out by creating synthetic data that comes from this gaussian model, then of course you will get these surfaces right: linear, linear and fairy simp, simple. if Sigma 1 = to Sigma 2 = I. linear, but with a CO varience Matrix where the normal to the hyper plane is Sigma, inverse, mu2 minus mu1 and, in general, quadratic. if Sigma 1 is not equal to Sigma 2, okay, but if you are only given Sigma, if you're only given the training data, you know it turns out that these methods can, can be, can not perform that well, okay, what would be another kind of drawback to this kind of approach? notice that in case one, the surface is quite simp, simple, right, but in case two, you have this Matrix Sigma. where does Sigma come from? where does mu1 come from? this? from the training data? which from the training data right. you basically say you can do something- maximum likelihood estimate of mu1, Maximum likelihood estimate of mu2, and those are okay because there's only a linear amount of parameters that you need to estimate. the problem with kind of this approach is that you then need to estimate a covariance matrix right, and that estimator can be off then and whatever advantage that you might have using U, a more accurate model- is then diminished by the fact that you need more and more training data to get an accurate estimator. okay, even though kind of I've introduced kind of probabilistic modeling. we'll see that these methods are not, you know that- competitive, but I think it's good to understand them right, because if you think about a very natural way of trying to form a linear decision surface, as we did in the beginning, then you can see that it follows from a modeling assumption, and I also wanted to just exhibit this kind of way of doing things right. you have a probabilistic model of the data and then you use Bas Rule and you get, you get. you get a particular estimate of the parameters right of the W's, and we could also have done it with regression. I did not do that, but you could formulate the problem such that you know you have a multiv gaussian and you take the maximum Hood estimator and that gives you the least squares estimator over there. right, we've done this. next time we will move on to talk a little bit about other ways of doing classification. we'll in particular talk about logistic regression, which you know used to be one of the best ways of doing classification, along with support Vector machines. we'll talk about those. well, we'll talk about the logistic regression classifier and then we'll spend some more time later on doing U support Vector machines. and then, of course, you know modern day. we use a lot of deep learning. we'll start to now talk a little bit about that. next time we will start talking a little bit about- not next next lecture, but I think next week- we'll start introducing a little bit about deep learning, talk a little bit about pytorch and kind of get you started in that direction, at the same time that we also look at some more classical methods. that's the end of this lecture.