Rohan was a distinguished engineer at Google And he's done- he did, you know- a variety of things at Google, including optimizers, self distillation, wrote a great paper with Jeff Hinton on the benefits of distillation, which have actually- you know online distillation, which have come out to be pretty true- worked on optimizers, shampoo, Which were second order optimizer, which was put into many Google products, And all this was before the Llm craze happened. And then then he was the lead for the text pillar of for the Gemini models, Some of the Gemini models that were released last year. Rohan led the pre-training for those models: the Gemini flash model that was announced in I/O in May and the subsequent Gemini 2.0 flash that was announced or released sometime, I think in January. Rohan then ended up taking up a new adventure And he's now a distinguished engineer at Meta where he is leading the pre-training of the llama models. and, as you might be aware, you know, Lama 4 was released, not this past weekend but the weekend before that. Rohan, of course, has been extremely busy navigating through not only, you know, a change in companies, change in colleagues, changing jobs, changing infrastructure, but in spite of that, he graciously kind of agreed to come and give a talk on my in this class. Rohan and I have, you know, collaborated on various projects together. it's a great pleasure to have Rohan come and give the talk over to you. Rohan, Yeah, thank you very much, And I would this talk to be very interactive and amid slides to make it introductory for folks who may have not trained a transformer but can think logically through sequence of steps on how to parallelize a transformer across whatever Gpus or Tpus. and feel free to raise your hand and we can make this interactive or interjeet. You could ask questions as well as I go through it for clarification. I think that will be the best way I can communicate and maybe my hope after this talk is that you're able to get started on taking from 1st principles on how to optimize transformers on top of Gpus or Dpus, and then I will also talk about some of my research, as interjeet has mentioned, some of the pre-existing open research that I had done in the past and then hopefully get you excited about doing new types of research in this area. Say share, I'm gonna share my let's see documents. I will share my screen. Oh, I have to quit and reopen Zoom to share my screen. I'll be back in a second. While we are kind of waiting on Rohan And oh okay, there he is. I was Gonna take a poll in the class. how many people have, you know, heard of Lama for, or tried it out, or at least seen, with the various things that happened? But, Ron, you're here, go ahead. Can you see my screen? Oh, yeah, and you can make it full screen if you want. Yes, let's see. It should be a screenplay screen. It's like this is a very basic introductory tutorial on transformers. Just a question like, I guess, a quick poll. Is it easy to pull, like, How many of you have trained transformers here? I think everybody is really quiet. Nilesh, you can tell them about the homework that they are doing right now, or, Yeah, just to answer the question I have- And they are doing their homework for, which is about pre training or very small transformers. on our lecture transcripts they do have some familiarity If they have started with it, But, yeah, nothing. Okay Then, Even close to what you do. no, this talk is perfect, because I think this just opens up a little bit of the details and lets folks think about: hey, Like, once you finish training this transformer, how do you scale this up to very large number of gpus and get even better results. all of it started out with this paper from 2017- 2018.. Attention is all you need. now very famous, and I have these 3 links that I think are very important for this class. I hope you all can take a look at this and do self study If you are interested in looking at how to scale transformers beyond single gpu and getting into the nitty gritty details, And my hope after this talk is to get you familiarized with this content. I've taken some of the content from these, From these tutorials, and then me assembled my own. how did we all start? this 2020 paper showed the following: you can throw massive amount of computation as part of pre-training- Think of it- Training on a lots and lots of text data- and you can continue to improve your test laws and continue to get much better model performance. this is the pre-training scaling Maximalist plot from 2020 on X-axis. You have flops- you can, But this just told us. you can just buy more and more compute, train bigger and bigger models and get better and better results. Of course, then all of engineering was spent on figuring out what is the shape of the model that we should train, What is the exact details of the transformer, What type of data should be trained on, How to clean the data, etc. so, Rohan, since you encouraged questions, I'll keep on asking the questions on on in the behalf of this team. I see that there are various power laws, right, or laws, which are there for compute in the plot you have seen in, divided by 2.3 times 10.8, and on. how did they come up with these? I guess they just empirically looked at the performance and then they fit these power law coefficients right, Exactly so, The. so Each of these blue plots are different. Training runs with different amount of compute, parameter size, model settings, and they fit their empirical data. And this trend and what this basically just tells you is that you can keep scaling and getting better and better results. Right, that's the extrapolation that's happening. And then, how seriously should we take these coefficients? I mean, I'm sure that these coefficients have evolved And it's probably like, maybe even different in different. This is a great point because since that paper, people have improved on these coefficients over time. clearly, the experimental methodology dictates what type of coefficients you get like. what data set do you train on? How do you set up the transformer, How many tokens do you train on? all of that matters, And over time, people have started improving on these results and gotten different coefficients that are more efficient, For example, chinchilla scaling law rules, which show you, like you know, you should use a lot more tokens. I think the original paper on pre-training Scaling also had problems around not decaying learning rate schedules. that created some reduction. they could have gotten even better results than if they had did the learning rate scale reduction. there are details, but in very general terms, this more compute gives you better models on a lot of data. Now, what I can say is that this is true if you have infinite data, But as you get to a data constrained regime, these things break down and maybe the research to do next is to figure out how to make use of existing data better. finding architectures that are more data efficient, finding methods that are more data efficient. Thanks, So, And now we're, I think, going to this next paradigm, where you have a single model But you're using more inference time compute to get better and better results. these are the thinking models. Opdi demonstrated it on this, Amy accuracy for o 1 models, where they showed that instead of pre-training a model, you can take existing models that are trained to reason and produce long reasoning chains of thoughts to produce higher accuracy on benchmark, And this is what the industry is currently looking at like. There is now at least 2 paradigms: one paradigm that allows us to build more intelligent models by spending more computation on pre-training. another paradigm where you can spend inference time, compute and get better benchmark scores as well, and these 2 are, I would say, orthogonal in the following sense: we both are trying to build more intelligent models. What inference time scaling is sort of showing us now is that you can build smaller models, spend more inference time compute and likely beat larger and larger pre-trained models on these benchmarks. this Doc, we'll go through a high level overview of training a transformer, Look at the basic building blocks of a transformer and some of my rules of thumb and think of ways to optimize like, say, a transformer forward, pass across many machines. And also I'll plug some of my existing work that are relevant today as well. probably have seen this plot figure a lot. on the right is the original at transformer figure from. attention is all you need. Essentially, transformer is basically 2 components: attention and feed forward layers and you stack them across many, stack them to make it very deep transformer And that's all you do. Attention has many variations: global attention, essentially, attention that looks at all the tokens that have in the past. local attention that looks at tokens that are nearby and feed for feed forward layers, the regular feedforward stack from the original paper and gated version of it. But one thing that strikes us in the research community is that there hasn't been much changes since 2017 on the basic transformer block. Of course there have been improvements, but the basic structure has exist, stayed to the test of time far. for example, the regular, the feed forward layers are still 2 layers only. The only modification that is known to work is the gated Galu, which adds another layer which is a gating function. the last perhaps 6 or 7 years have been spent in optimizing transformers on different hardware, And that's where the distributed training comes in, and my top tips, which we will go through some of the exercise for this, is to think of the shapes of your computation, the inputs and outputs. think of those dimensions as things you can parallelize over, and certain axes are easy to parallelize over. certain axes will result in communication. Then the question to ask yourself is: how do you optimize that communication over those many Gpus that you're training on? the second one is thinking about roof line estimation, figuring out, Given a particular shape of a transformer, could you tell How long would it take to- at least if you could- you- get a back of the envelope of On a single gpu? How long would it Take to run a forward pass, For example? the second one is this notion of overlapping computation and communication. the more you can exploit this, in whichever setting you're running your transformer on, the better The overall result is, And a lot of the engineering goes into that as well. Well, oh, Rohan, I had one question. you said something about local attention. Can you the way you described it? you said that you basically take attention only among your- maybe K neighbors. is that how it works that K is fixed And the attention matrix you get is in some sense a K banded matrix, Or is it different than what I'm saying? That's exactly right, And when it becomes a K banded matrix it's a sliding window Local attention because it's banding in a sliding fashion. There are variations that are blockified attention, where chunks of the attention is over same same number of tokens and then the chunk changes, slides by a certain amount. there are variations of local attention, But maybe an intuition is that for most processing of text you only need content that are nearby. global attention obviously has that already. you look at nearby tokens, But you also look at every token that you have seen far. what people have found is that when you do local attention, it's giving an inductive bias to the model to perform better for text modeling. An interesting insight is that local attention it's sparsification But it's very explicit specification and it for the data that we are modeling. This is a very good inductive bias. it models a lot of models. Now Mistral, the latest llama models, command a all use some form of local attention and it generally improves the model. And and typically, how many local attention layers do you have and how many global attention layers for the different models implement different types of local attention. Mistral did one. If I remember correctly, this was a year or 2 years ago- did one sliding window local attention, followed by one global attention. The latest llama 4 is 3 sliding window- Sorry, not sliding window, the block, if they call it chunk- local attention, followed by one global attention command data sliding window as well. And these are these are these are hyper parameters that different engineering team trades off to get different inference performance, different training performance and different quality for the model. Right, you can change this, these hyper parameters for the data that you're modeling. But this would be a very cool exercise to implement on the text modeling task that you have for pre training over the lecture notes. See if local attention every, every other layer improves your quality of the model, right, Yeah, 2 clarification questions Here. one is Maybe just one, because we are running out of time here. in the distributed training setup you have given these points like: can you Give a go? What's a good mental model of the Gpu setup that we should think of that? Okay, like we have n Gpu nodes And maybe like, on the order of this, much time operation on Gpu takes and on, Okay, maybe you're coming to it. I did try to build that mental model. I just wanted to. If you haven't heard of these collectives, definitely read about them. but I'll give Go over them, because these are the bread and butter of talking about distributed training. Once you know these primitives, everything else I promise you will become an exercise you do once and then you become as good as the world's expert on, or close to an expert on, distributed training. the firstst: what am I showing here? This is from the Jack's scaling book. you, you have data that are colored and you have 3, Gpus, say here 0, 1 or 2. indexed. there are 3. Gpus indexed by 0, 1 and 2.. Okay, the 1st one is on the left- is all gather. That's a primitive that does the following operation: It gathers all the data together from every gpu and puts it together and concatenates, concatenates it every now every gpu has the same data, which is a concatenated red, green and blue block together. That's an all gathered operation. Indrajit, you're muted. Sorry, it's a broadcast, But then it arranges the data in such a way that it's consistent across all the GPS, All the gpus. One thing when you look at these collectives- this is I leave it as an exercise- is to look at what is the amount of data that are transferred from in this collective operation and how to optimize that data movement across whichever number of Gpus. you have right, the complexity as you go to bigger and bigger number of gpus is that or not all Gpus will be connected with each other using a fast communication link. you have to start thinking about clever algorithms to do the transfer, And there are many, and those are implemented And then you can use them. But you have to start thinking of that. that's one thing. That's the extra layer of complexity. it's not as simple as 3, Gpus like. If you say an example is, if you have 1,000, Gpus, not all of them are connected together using extremely fast connections, Right, you can't exchange that fast. The second one is this notion of reduce scatter. it could be reduced Scatter sum, for example, where all we are doing is taking- In this case you have an array of 3 elements and they are on 3 Gpus, and then you have a reduction operation operator sum, and you're collecting the 1st element from each of the arrays that are in the each of the gpu and summing them together. the outcome of this, if it's a sum, would be 3, 6, and 9, if that makes sense. every Gpu will have a scalar result, a single element, and the 1st 0 Gpu will have 3 as the result. Second Gpu will have 6 as the result and the 3rd Gpu will have 9 as the result, and the last one is this operator. all to all, you can see you have 1, 2, 3,, which is the array in the 1st Gpu, 1, 2, 3, which is in the second and the 3rd one, and you get the 1st elements together, But now, instead of summing them together, you concatenate them into an array of size 3. reduce scatter and all to all, in this particular example, are sort of similar in terms of the operation, except at the end, At very end. There is no reduction, right, But all to all now can be used in different ways. There are more complexity around it, But this is the basic collective that you should think about whenever you think about the operations in a transformer And all you have to figure out is how to put those right operations together to get the end result. think of these are the communication primitives that you can put in in your code to send data around to do some operation. There's a question on the chat And we. the question is: how do you scale other hyper parameters while scaling the batch size on multiple Gpus for faster training or adaptive optimizer? it seems it's going really. Yeah, I can like, But maybe you can answer it towards the end of the class. Yeah, so absolutely like. yeah, like. I'll ask that question again later on. That's it now. let's look at the tension very quickly. just make. we have half an hour more, right, so We have, we have 45 min. let's look at attention: right in attention for every token: batch time, sequence length- those are the number of tokens that are in your batch You have. for every head- number of head- you have a vector which is of the size- key size- it could be 128, or 2,, 56, and you have to take these dot products on the right. this is the attention qk transpose and that produces a big matrix And then you have to do a softmax over it across the axis And that's your attention operator And then you have to do it for every head independently and concatenate the results. now question to everyone: how do you parallelize this operation, The Qk Transpose? you can see that the Qk transpose makes use of the sequence length. you can. If you do it over batch, you can do data parallel because these are independent, but you can't do it over sequence length because it's all dependent on each other. You can do it over number of heads because they are completely independent. at least you find you can find 2 axes which are naively parallel. it means that there is no communication. You can just do this operation independently. a quick question here: even for local attention, this sequence length parallelism won't work, right, if you have a sliding window. No, sorry, it won't work. you can optimize over sequence length, but it will just imply there is communication involved, Right, right, I'm just saying parallel where there is no communication between Gpus would be over batch and heads And you could potentially modify local attention right where you could do sliding window and then blockify that there is no communication. You can parallel Potentially, right, potentially. That's awesome. You think you solved the local attention parallelism. That's the. but there will be a question, Okay, 1st thing is context parallelism, right, Like, like. I hope the way I'm presenting this is helpful, Because these are questions you should ask yourself when you do implement the transformer and once you ask these questions and look at it, from which axes are things you can parallelize? which axes are the ones you can communic? which access will result in communication? What does that communication operator look like? Then you can start optimizing for that program and then say: this is how we should optimize. And then the details of whether you are on a Gpu or a Tpu doesn't matter. I came from a Tpu world. now on a Gpu world is roughly the same. you, The terminologies differ, but it's identical like. Once you have this base level of understanding, it becomes super easy to move between different hardware. and then you have to look at, As I said previously, different groups of Gpus may be connected differently than groups of Tpus, Right? those are things that are details. Now, this is a context parallelism exercise, like: how do you parallelize the Qk transpose over the sequence dimension? I just wrote some basic code here: you get the Q vector, K vector and V vector over bh, tk, where B is the batch, T is the sequence, H is the heads and K is a key size. And then you get these logits, which are, which you obviously do, softmax over. And then my question to you all is: how do you parallelize this? just to kind of ask the question again, right, parallelism will in involve thinking about how the data is distributed and also how the model is distributed, right, the model over here being QKV And of course, the other parameters. Wait, I think we- I don't know whether this makes sense or is right, but I think- to paralyze over sequence, like whenever you're multiplying 2 matrices by each other, you can take, you can paralyze by taking the row of the second matrix, multiplying it by a column of the 1st matrix. I think like you can maybe paralyze that, But I don't. I don't know whether that makes sense. You, you're pretty close actually. I'm just gonna go back to the previous slide, right Just to, I just said clue work across the query, query sequence dimension. let's think about what an attention operation is Right for every query, like, say you have, Say, your lecture notes has 1,024 tokens. Right for every position, you have to take a dot product with everything before that position query and key right query at position 55.. Takes a dot product at with key at position 55, and key at position 54 all the way to position one. alright, you can Naively parallelizing. I can parallelize over the query dimension, query sequence length. right, I am creating a attention output which is sequence length by sequence length. Right, then I can say across the sequel, one of the axis, I can just do, do them independently. but it has a problem. Could you guess what the problem is? I need the full key matrix everywhere, That's 1.. But say that you have the full key matrix everywhere, That's, that's okay. Like, let's just look in terms of not computation, not memory. That's a great point as well for later. The problem is because usually when you have a causal mask it's not load balanced. The last query has to take 1,024 dot products, whereas the 55,. one only has to take dot products among 55 vectors. if you parallelize naively, what happens is one of the Gpus will be done while the other one is still processing everything. would a solution be that you kind of broadcast the 55th one to the others and then do the computation? or Or is there a way to, when now forgetting transformers and everything, parallel programming? we always want to load balance the work, right. Is it possible to instead chunk the thing that you get load balanced, comp, amount of computation? One of them is MoD sharding. what I said was I divide the sequence this way, But what if I just take every k together? Zeroth query goes: I have 8, Gpus. Zeroth position Query goes to Gpu 0. position 9 goes to Gpu 0. position 17 goes to Gpu 0, all the way. Now I almost load balanced all the work because all the work is roughly proportional. So, Rohan, But like when you are implementing this, this attention with causal mask, I thought the way you implement is is irrespective of the causal mask, that the causal mask is something that you apply but you end up doing the same amount of computation, Just that with some padded tokens. is this not true? if so, that's an implementation like you can implement with the mask, you can implement without the mask, all those. but the actual work that we need is the triangle and the of the attention, Right, Wrangle, Right. My question was: how do you make the lower triangle amount of work to be load balanced, Right, Right, and that is by taking different gpus operating over similar size length. for the La, one Gpu uses takes the entire sequence 1,024.. The other Gpu has to use 1,000.. 23,000.. 22,021.. that's how you can load balance the work, right, Good night. And that's then. then, typically, you want the, I guess the dimension to be a multiple of the number of gpus, or the number of Gpus to be, like you know, factory. That is correct and that is one of the most painful odd number of GPS, Right, Right. That's why you kind of see you know model dimension being 5,, 12,, 1,024, and the number of Gpus being some lower power of 2.. Yeah, anytime we add some weird multiplier everything. Yeah, okay, quickly, Because you can fix it by padding, But then it becomes extra code you have to write and all that becomes too complicated to manage. But here this is so, But this exercise hopefully tells you like: well, attention is the basic operator. You could obviously parallelize over batch and heads And they're called different terminologies, Data parallel- head is, I think, attention parallel, or I don't know what the people call it. but then they can also parallelize over the sequence dimension as well, because you're computing outputs, which is a square and only up lower triangle of the square, and then you can load, balance the amount of work across many gpus. And I think this is the type of thinking You may want to start applying when you write the code for transformers, because once you start looking at all the operations and started trying to parallelize, everything becomes easier. if you're starting out now. the second one is the fee forward layer. largely most models have gone to using gated galoo layer. I only use gated galoo in my plot here or in my slides here. x is The input, X is multiplied by some matrix W, and then an activation function called Galu is applied, which is this operation over a single scalar. Then you take a Hadamar product with another output, which is X multiplied by another matrix V, and that's the gating operation. the Gelu can switch on and off different activations Essentially, And that's why called gated galoo. Then it's followed by another matrix Multiply, which is W 2, which is there here. X is the batch Tim X has the following shape: it has a shape of batch dimension, sequence length and model dimension. model dimension is your, like you know, inputs this size. One thing that's interesting about feedforward layer is that you not interesting like it's basically operating over individual tokens. There is no dependence on the sequence. Attention is the only thing that mixes sequence positions together. Feedforward layers are running independently on every token, independent of the other. you can Massive parallelization Gpus love it right, It's batch time sequence length. number of your effective batch size is batch time sequence length, because they are completely naively parallel, independent operations. Then you have model dimension and you have a hidden dimension. Those are 2 dimensions that you have to think about. Model dimension and hidden dimensions are typically related. Hidden dimension usually is a factor 2, x or 4 x Larger than the model dimension. Alright, if so, then this is good. now, if you have a single gpu, You probably and you you train. If you have multiple Gpus, If you have a very small model models where the hidden and model dimensions can fit the memory of individual Gpus, Then you can just purely do data parallel training, each Gpus independently, work on independent amount of work and then do a forward pass. But, as I said, the engineering aspects of this have made the models. you can get better result by making models bigger. Now the dimensions of these models have become large that it doesn't fit a single gpu. I mean it would be hard to fit all the layers on a single gpu. then people have thought, Hey, how do we split these weight matrices across multiple gpus? that you can fit. But the problem with splitting the matrix across multiple gpus is that you incur communication cost. right, there is no free lunch you have. either you can put it on a single gpu or you can split it. If you split it, You have to start adding communication to your forward pass or backward pass. Yeah, I have one more question. So, for example, if you would not have Galu- right, I guess in the original transformer it was, you know- Think of the Galoo operation as just being all once Yep, Right, Yep. the one thing that worries me, you know from a when: Because you do Galu, you are Sorry, Sorry, Almost taking the squares of elements right For which pass the galoo. would it be better to just have a 0: 1 mask instead of a galoo? I don't know, That's a good. Is there any stability? Things that happen when you- Where is it? Where? Yeah, yeah, it's a great area for research because I do know that folks are using relu squares instead of Galu to make it super sparse and having that sparsity helps accelerate the matrix, multiply the W 2 multiply really fast, because now your activations are sparse. if there's a certain hardware, you can exploit that sparsity. Let's see. This is an awesome line of work Research. You can do one. Maybe an insight I can give is that it almost feels these 3 forward layers and encode the activity vector you get is like it's a multihord vector that's looking: this gated get like- I don't know if you can see my cursor, You can, Yes, we can This. this operator gives you, You can think of this operator giving you some kind of very hidden dimension sized activity vector where different bits are on. it's like, say, in your in the example you gave, it's one or 0.. Yes, that's like in allowing you to index into some other matrix, W 2, which is an embedding table, Yeah, And then you're summing up these embeddings. Then you can start seeing how the transformers are encoding information into these free forward layers using approximate something, a hash table. There's many work that talk about How then transformers encode stuff in there. This is one way to think about it, right? If you forward layers are creating these, storing information in these weights, Right? I see no, And this is true for all days. Or this is like maybe in the middle. That's the way you start seeing this more and more. Oh no, I meant to say this is when you say I didn't talk about layers yet, but just the feed forward, just the feed forward component. It's repeated 8 times. Right, Whether which section of the deep transformer does it encode Which knowledge? like Yes, that's different Question Here. No, but, but this sparsity occurring. I would assume that maybe in the input layer, like things are looking much more murky, But as you go deeper and deeper, like it becomes more peaky and K Hot. This will be an awesome research thing to run on the We don't As like, because you get to see some of these behaviors and what I can see is what you see sometimes on the low, small scale. hold at the larger scale. you may find some insights about training transformers using the class project as well. like, I agree with you, but the reason I'm not going in there is I can't, I don't recall all the research about which layer is doing what. God I should have you had this lecture earlier. I think it's a bit late for the class projects to change. but, Yeah, sorry. So, as I said, like you know, batch and sequence is fine, But then you have model and hidden dimension and what I found looking at it from 1st principles is that I think Vishal, I think, mentioned it- you can multiply matrix 2 ways and once you know them, that's all people do, But they're called different things in different code base or different frameworks and thinking just purely from the base operator. And how do you parallelize a matrix? Multiply Is all you need to do: large-scale pro-training. Everything else is names associated with different of operator and they could be named differently based on which line of research or which company you are in. And that's been an interesting learning for me. this is from the Jack scaling book. your data parallelism, when there's something called as fully sharded data parallelism, There's tensor parallelism, It's also called megatron sharding, It's also called model parallelism. It's really hard to like Understand when you like If someone tells you, if you didn't know earlier, Oh, I do megatron, I do 0, 3. Be what is going on like It's too confusing. I want to pop one level up the stack and talk about matrix multiplies and then you all should build a mental model of how each one of those map to one of these things in the literature. you got 2 matrices. I sorry for the visualization. I made it last minute, but it should convey the message. hopefully You all understand. There's a green and 2 matrices, the green one and the red one. you take act as the matrix multiply. You're taking matrix one times matrix 2.. the naive question to ask is: How do you parallelize this? I can split the 1st matrix- Sorry, it's the second matrix- along the output dimension into N pieces, right? And then do them independently and then concatenate the results. now I said a few things. First, st I said the output matrix is shattered. the second matrix is shattered along the output dimension or divided among the output dimension. Then I need to collect all of them together at the very end, After a matrix multiply. The collection operation is some a collective that we've. I've mentioned earlier the All gather right. If different Gpus were doing this work independently and every Gpu needs now the output of the full thing, you can do an all gather operator. This is clear, right. this at least an app at an abstraction level. This is clear. the second way to make: multiply a matrix. You can divide the 1st matrix into the rows, the 1st dimension and also the output, and and then multiply it. so And then you can. You have to sum all of them together to get the output. there are 2 ways to basically multiply a matrix: output dimension or input dimension. Now, look, let's look at this one. Right here, We're taking a matrix, splitting it across rows, another matrix splitting it across columns, And you're taking a matrix. multiply between these partial row matrix and partial column matrix, The output size of that matrix will be the full size, right, It'll the output of this. Sorry, I, I think I might have messed up the pig figure. right, I think you want. you wanted to probably do an outer product, right, you wanted to write it as: yeah, you want to Exactly. I'm very sorry, but this is good. Nobody asked me anything. I was almost taking the wrong. But basically, you can think of matrix multiplication in different ways. right, inner products, which is what you did before, And this is the outer product Products. Now, the thing about outer products is the thing about outer products is that when you do these outer products, you get the full output and you need a way to sum them together across all the gpus. A way to sum them is called an alt reduce operator. right, But now these, like I went back here and here you can see how different you look. Think of the operator in terms of shapes, Think of how you want to split it across and then think of, if you did split it across many gpus, which communication primitives do you need to connect together to get the final result? If you, if you wanted the fastest way to do matrix multiply, you would stick with storing everything locally. We could not store everything locally because the models got too big. now you have to pay for communication cost and there are 2 ways to split these things together And that's what people have been optimizing for: fully sharded. Now back to these terminologies: the fully sharded data, parallelism, The inputs in. in this is a slightly different version, where the inputs are shattered across rows. This thing is shaded across rows as well, And then to get the output you have to gather everything together. The tensor panelism is much, maybe a bit more obvious, where you have b times, Dy, the thing that I mentioned- and then you can either divide your input across D or Fy. I guess each one will produce a different result. you can shard it differently, But this is where I was mentioning this many ways you can shard and the way you shard is based on what is most efficient. and then, going back to transformers particularly, I did point out one thing: right, You have a natural 2 matrices. you get this output and then you multiply by W 2.. the how you shard W And V could be different from how you shard W 2, that the innermost multiply can. the communication can be reduced. there is variations here as well, But I would let you all look at the literature to map out how to map feedforward layers in different configurations and think about different cost and communication trade off for each one. There are many variations, as you can imagine, and some variations are faster and some are slower. some are better for memory, some are worse for memory but better for compute. So So, Abiram, your audio is a little garbled. Okay, I'll, I'll send a message in the chat. Oh, feel free to ask your question. I think it became better when when you just spoke, but earlier it was a little girl. Okay, is it? Is it good Now? yeah, the 1st method involved multiplying a matrix by a vector, but like. I'm just wondering, the most highest parallel, Maybe most memory efficient, is like what if you had each a vector by vector multiplication for each element, I guess, Yeah, that's the order product, where each of your the size of the output dimension is one, input is one, And then you're doing as Indrajit said, right, The order products of many of these, Maybe the reverse of that. what you had originally was the output is one element, right, Right, I think you can take, for example, this picture that Rohan drew, right, You can take the left matrix, which is the green matrix, and if you now divide it up into, you know, M Rows, then I think it'll get to what you are asking, right, Yeah, yeah, I'm just saying Yeah, that's what I was wondering. Is that like? Yeah, exactly. So in some sense that is kind of included in this. I think, Oh, okay, Good, Is like So, yeah, this That was a great question. Right, Like you can reduce memory, But then you may effectively utilize the gpus not nicely, because Gpus, really large matrix multipliers utilization. I see Something that you also think about that That's all the trade off that people make on a daily basis. to train big transformers efficiently, You have to reduce memory, things fit. You want to make sure your Gpu is utilized, that you have sufficient work per call to a matrix. multiply and you make these trade-offs together And there there is more interesting things you can now do. which is the next layer of complexity is that, as you do these operators, you there are communications that you have to do, right, But this communication can be done overlapped with computation, If that makes sense. You don't have to wait for every part, all the results, to appear before you start summing things together. That's one optimization. another layer of like when, if you go deep into this, is figuring out how to interleave communication with computation. that overall time taken is super fast, is cheap. If you have to wait for communication to happen, that will take a long time and that will slow. you Reduce your total utilization. And with these 2 things then you have essentially a transformer and you can train on as many gpus as you want. Now the interesting aspect is each of the choice that you did in terms of sharding in the forward pass will result in a different way of computing the backward pass. I think I've did not talk about the backward pass here at all, But that's the next layer of complexity. Right, You've got your forward pass written. It's really efficient, It's good. in the backward pass You have to also use these collectives to compute the partial gradients and then compute the full gradient, then compute the weight. update One question: Rohan, you've talked about kind of splitting these matrices up or shorting them, Either row wise or column Wise, right, You know, back in the Hpc days, right when that libraries scale a pack and on which I worked on when I was a grad student, mind you, they said that the optimal way of sharding is block cyclic. you subdivide the left matrix into blocks in a cyclic way and the right matrix and also a cyclic way And that kind of minimize the communication and on. has that already been considered in in implementation or Perhaps right? I come from the Tpu world and where, Yes, That might be less efficient to do on a tpu. I see May, perhaps on the Gpu world, that has been considered, But this is I don't know the answer. I see, I see it may be embedded under the Cuda library, like that's right on the Gpu. Yeah, okay, I think I wanted to mention, given all the work, thoughts on research. this is my own personal thoughts. like you know, you have to form your own as you do research or engineering. the most successful ideas in the last Several years that I've been doing Research has been the ones that utilize computer scissors more. When I started research, there was this prior for me to make things more efficient, which was great. but if I picked the wrong project, I would work on making something more efficient which would not stay the test of time, in the sense Within a year it won't be useful. an example is low memory optimizers. I worked on it for a year. It was great for a couple of years, But then all the gpus now have lots more memory than when we started. when I started, We only had 8 gigs of memory. Now we have, I think, B 200, as in, 192 gigs of memory or something I don't know- something very large. always work on things that make use of more computers is something that I've learned. Do not discard ideas. It's not a full on. you have to make things efficient, But think of making things efficient and have a nice way to go from efficient version to more compute version, because compute will continue to increase over time. your methods could use our computer to get better quality. Whatever you're going for, right? That's 1 like. don't think of efficiency as a single point, on a single GA particular point, But think of it as a spectrum that you can change the knob. Hardware advances absolutely can unlock new algorithms. When I started working on shampoo we had really slow tpus. Now we have extremely fast ones and I saw the transition over 7 years. the 1st 2 years we were trying to make existing tpus work with second order methods and took a bunch of shortcuts to get it working. And we did And it was very useful. But over time Now it's possible for chronicle factor methods, which I'll talk about next, is to run quite efficiently on hardware and you can scale trans. like when I started transformers, we were training less than 100 million. Now we are training hundreds of 1 billion size transformer And when I it wasn't quite clear we would hit hundreds of billions when we were working on 100 million parameter size models. always think about using more computation to make better outcomes. I don't know, This is just my prior Think. definitely think of a deficiency, But don't think of efficiency as a single point. Okay, this is the part of the talk where I was talking about transformer, forward pass And the last next bit. I don't know how long we have. I guess we only have 10 min Is about the cool research that I did, which is still relevant, that hopefully, over time I can now publish a lot more cool research. but the ones I can talk about I put in these slides. You know, the 1st one is distributed shampoo. We will work. when we started, Nobody- not a lot of people- thought this was interesting. Now that are with Intraji, Tsai and others have come up with more, cooler versions, and then there have been methods now making it super fast. move on, how do you optimize neural networks more efficiently and faster? distributed shampoo: when we started, core distillation- This I remember talking about. hey, what is the limits of batch size? We're going to hit the limits of batch size at some point. And then we need methods that can use more computation to improve training efficiency. right, And when Jeff and George post that question, I was like, Come on, like we're not going to hit the limits of batch size soon. This is obviously hypothetical future and we have hit Now the limits of batch size and these methods have become more useful. right, like this was one example where it was kind of we're trying to think of kind of a bit further ahead in terms of what the limits are and try to come up with something that's more relevant. And then now it's very practically useful. And of course distillation is generally useful for getting more efficient models. We use code distillation type techniques for the latest llama models And that was very interesting learning as well. Nilesh, Yeah, I was just asking. when you're saying the limits of batch size, You mean the benefits we get in better models when we scale bat size right. let me define it following right. when we define it here, It was like you can train at some batch size, B, Business, K Number of Gpus. If I were to give you 2 K Number of gpus, I double your number of gpus. can you train faster? It turns out. Actually there is a point at which adding more Gpus will not make your You cannot train equally fast. For example, if I give you 2 x more Gpus, you can't train 2 x faster And it starts breaking down very quickly. and there is a point at which there's no more benefit adding more gpus And this is because of communication. No algorithmic state of the art Optimization algorithms cannot continue providing linear returns for linear increase in batch size convergence. I see, I. I guess what you're saying is that you know computationally you could linearly increase batch size with the number of gpus and in terms of work involved, they would scale. But the algorithms, the, the online algorithms, don't. The, the optimization algorithms, start performing worse when you start increasing bad sites, And that's. that's an important, very relevant topic. If you think about. in my current lecture I've talked about parallelism and the naivest parallelism you can exploit as batch size. if you could scale to very, very large batch size, then you can use a lot more Gpus and scale your model better. the question is: how do you unlock that? any line of research that attacks it is pretty relevant. It's a very hard research topic to attack. right, and co-distillation is an orthogonal approach where the idea was: hey, let's train 2 models instead of one and exchange information between these 2 models where one is the teacher to the other, the other is a teacher to this one and then train and that gives you con faster convergence and allows you to use more computation, because in general you you can use like if in a lot of cases, computation is not what limits us, right, you want models trained faster. I'm. folks are willing to give us more Gpus if it means that I can cut the total training time by half. But that doesn't happen today, even for really large language models. And the question is: how do you unlock- And that's a very in the and in the core- distillation work? you were considering one smaller student model and one larger teacher model, correct? No, no, Then the corticulation works. both models were. This was a fascinating Slides I see, Same size, And there's interesting research to be done on teacher student Gap. What we found is that if you train models which are roughly the same size, where they're both ahead of each other slightly because of seeing slightly different data, you can accelerate. convergence in each model gets much better, like If the student was weaker than the teacher, then distillation benefit pretty significantly lower. Actually, it gets worse If the teacher is bigger than the student. Obviously, we all know distillation works. This challenges that, not challenges. it gives in that the teacher student framework doesn't dictate how large the teacher should be, And this one kind of shows that you need just the teacher to be sufficient, slightly better. It doesn't need to be substantially better. Yeah, And I- And I guess you could even I'm- and I'm guessing that this is going to be research topics- right- That instead of having 2 models Right, Be, let's say, of the same size and then doing core distillation, You can have one large model And then you can have K Smaller models and then you can do kind of some ensemble Good In going forward. I would love collaboration around this topic because I do believe that ensemble distillation- different ways to parallelize across multiple Gpus with mechanic distillation as a base mechanism- has some impact today in current Llm training and there is a lot to be gained, especially with language models, because the data mixture really affects what kind of things these models learn And especially if you can vary the data mixture, you can create experts very quickly. you can kind of get a really good code model without spending as much flops as a single big model by making it more specialized to code, And then hope is that you can distill that back to the base model does mean many areas. there's many questions to ask and many things to formulate Here. Oh, I see, Okay, really interesting, Okay, cool. you mean a mixture of expert approach, But each expert is sort of distilling knowledge to every other expert, Every other expert exactly. and make sure, Yes, current mixtures of expert is very focused on Ffn. If I had more time I would also. maybe next time I give this lecture I can provide how moes are done currently, But this is maybe at a higher level, at model level. experts, Right, Yeah. And then local prop was this idea with Manfred Vermouth and Hassan around this idea of the problem with, like, how do you improve backprop? And we've been working on, Obviously, optimization, But Backdrop has a sequential dependency And, like I remember Jeff mentioning once when we were in brain, backdrop is inefficient. or optimization with deep learning, You take a batch and you take one gradient step and you throw away the batch. Humans learn way more, per example, than neural networks. the question is: can you? another way to think of is like: can you learn more from a single batch, of example? and local prop kind of gets there by decoupling these updates to be per layer And you run multiple iterations on the same batch. And there's connection with the shampoo line of work. We find that it's related to a preconditioner and you get better results. Unfortunately, local prop is still in the toy. we've got a deep autoencoder to work quite well, but hasn't really scaled beyond that. But it is a line of research that a lot of people kind of still pursue because, like, if you can parallelize as you if I like, But this is saying that you can split your layers across many gpus and do more compute, which are independently local, and get better results, faster convergence, right so, And some of the difficulty today with many of these things is implementation complexity. But now, maybe in the next few years, these type of algorithms may shine right. I think we have only 2 min. I don't. There's a have a lot of material around: Shampoo, Co distillation and local. But if I, maybe I can should stop here and ask for questions, right, and maybe give this part of the talk later, because I don't think we will finish. Yeah, yeah, sounds good. I know we. sorry we interrupted you a lot because I think. No, that's all, Buddy, very interesting. you know, we have just a few minutes left. Anybody wants to answer? Ask a question. I guess maybe I can repeat Sunny's question now. Actually, I have a better question, Professor, If Okay, go ahead, Go ahead, Tanish, You are replacing your question. Really sorry to bother you. so, Rohan, I was wondering that this for adaptive optimizer, you should have your increase the batch size by K. with Adam, You do it. root K for the learning rate, you know. But but the problem is, does that scale in your experience in, maybe in Gemini or maybe in llama. does that scale? Or it has limits. Sorry to like, yeah, Only talk about llamas, in llamas particularly, or in in in. also, the external research, like we do find that you can increase batch size to some point and after which we start having negative. like increasing batch size is negative to scaling the model, as in you get worse quality. we find that as you increase batch size there's a point at which training becomes extremely unstable. You get these spikes. The model does converge to some point, but it's much worse than using a smaller batch size for the same number Total tokens. Does that answer your question? Yeah, Thank you very much for, basically, how do you know you hit a critical batch size? Is this how, How you know you hit a critical batch size? Yeah, like, yes, like I think llamas particularly employ this technique called meta P, like it's a variation of Mu P, To set learning rates. you'll learn more about it in the paper. It It's yeah. then there are studies that show like there's a point at which scaling beyond is negative to the model And there's a nice curve showing that. Thank you very much. Okay, any more questions? Do we get access to this presentation? Because, like there was links that you mentioned and all these papers and stuff. so Yeah, I can send it to you all interjeet after this and absolutely Yeah, we'll make it available. just we've made other. Yeah, I would. I would really go through these 3 document links and it has a lot more material, But I'm hoping my talk gives you a high level overview to grok these tutorials better. Okay, any more questions? Okay, again, you know, I think. thank, thank you, Rohan. I think this was a treat to this class to learn from somebody who's actually, you know, in the right in the thick of Pre training, these very, very humongous models. you know, currently for Meta and I know that Rohan is kind of very busy and, you know, has many, many pressing things to deal with. again, kind of pleased that you know He accepted our invitation and kept it, because I know what has happened in the last 2 weeks for him and I'm sure This week was pretty. Yeah, last week was pretty interesting, but I'm hoping that we have given the world open models and people make use of them. Hopefully, going forward like, like, Hopefully you all take some of these lessons in your class projects and tinker with them. the best outcome would be You all like find different ways to parallelize and contribute back. right, because I don't think it's a solved area. right? It's not an area where it's the most efficient methods have been discovered Yet.