today it'll be the TA NES who will be teaching this lecture. NES, you can go ahead. thanks, init. yeah, today's lecture is on introduction to deep learning. here we'll talk a little bit about deep learning, what it is, why do we want to do it and what are its applications. why is it exciting? and then we'll look into what are the key ingredients that make this deep learning framework. yeah, let's begin. what is deep learning? deep learning is a sub field of machine learning that leverages deep neural networks to model data. if, if, if we draw a rough vein diagram, if AI is the bigger circle which which constitutes of the the goal of trying to mimic human behavior, trying to mimic human intelligence, machine learning is a sub field of AI which uses statistical techniques to sort of do AI. deep learning is a smaller circle inside machine learning which specifically leverages neural networks to achieve the goal of AI, which is trying to mimic intelligence artificially. why do we want to do it? why why not traditional machine learning that we have seen far? because it is a very powerful technique which allows us to automatically learn representations from data, eliminating the need for manual feature engineering. that is, with classical machine learning, there are often times you need specific practitioners in the field to design the features for the task that you are solving for, to get an effective method. what deep learning promises- not sort of promises- to do, is it? it eliminates that need and it can learn from large amount of data by itself without any need to design features or special representations to enable machine learning. deep learning. neural networks as a concept have existed before they were. they were first introduced in some something 1950s, but they they were not successful at that time. in this current, since last decade, they have gained a lot of traction and this has happened because of these three components. first is the hardware, that is, gpus and tpus happen, which are a very powerful Hardware to accelerate these Matrix operations. and then internet also happened, which gave us a lot of data to train on these unsupervised methods which which don't need any any annotation to to train on they. they became possible because the data was much available that you you were able to train on, such am vast amount of data, and the model was able to learn properly. and then the third is the third pillar, is the Frameworks. these, it is sub Frameworks, pytorch, tensorflow Jacks. they enabled or they provided a very seamless apis to work on and to, to share code on, that open source Community could build upon, and a lot of the, the, the details of the deep learning could be hidden inside these Frameworks and people can work on abstractions, simpler abstractions. these three pill pillars kind of enabled deep learning in modern era. let's come to some of its applications. essentially, any intelligent task can be deep learning can be applied to. it could be object recognition that is, given an image or a video, you want to identify an object. it could be self driving. it could be playing games, something chess, alphao, go and any kind of games. recently a AI agent has also soled Among Us, which is great to see, and conversation agent that we see as chat Bots- they are ubiquitous these days. and then we have media generation something- imagine Del and much more that followed- which, which can given text prompt, they can generate image or a f length video, the, even these days, and at the end, maybe it the, any, the artificial general intelligence. then that probably, at least that's the goal that we want to solve using deep learning. all, all of these applications are exciting and they, they, they are worth working for. let's look at some of the key components of deep learning. there are three kind of broad components of a deep learning framework. the first is the model, which is typically a neural network that Maps your input data to Output prediction. then, second, you have a loss. it's it's a. it's loss is a scalar quantity that defines how well a model fits our data. it is typically defined using a loss function which consumes your model and your data and it gives out this scalar quantity which we call loss. the third is the optimization. it's a process, typically some variant of gradient descent, that adjusts the model parameters to minimize the loss. it's essentially the learning process that you have defined your task and you have defined your mechanism to solve the task. now, how do you learn? the learning process itself is what we call optimization. these three are the key components and in the rest of the class we will dive deeper into all of these three components one by one before we go ahead. any questions far, okay, let's come to the model, which is essentially neural networks in the case of deep learning. a brief history, I said earlier: the early work on perceptrons in 1950s, late the foundation for neural networks. but back then, because of limited compute, limited data, these methods were not that successful and eventually the excitement around these methods dead di die down. but in 1990s they saw Resurgence and with with more data available and specifically in 2012 with imag net and gpus getting available, they they saw a big rise in popularity and that's the main it's. it's been the main Workhorse behind all kind of AI since then. roughly, it's model after the human brain's neurons, that is, in the brain we see these interconnected neurons. where a neuron is a basic computational unit. it takes some inputs and produces some activation based on what kind of inputs is seeing. essentially, it's neural networks themselves are also somewhat inspired, but it's it's they. they do work quite differently than actual neurons. it's it's it's only fair to say that they are inspired, but they are not exactly trying to replicate what brain neurons are doing. let's look at what a neuron looks in a in a neural, deep neural network that deep learning uses. it's it's as I said, it's the building block for our neural network. it's a basic computational unit. there are four components to it. one is it the inputs. it receives multiple scalar inputs and then there are weights for each of the input it receives. the weight essentially measures how much that input is important for activating this neuron. and the summation. the summation part is just: it's, it's a, it's doing all the sum adds up all the weighted inputs that it is seeing. and then there is a nonlinearity, which is a filter or activation function that, given, given the weighted sum, it it decides whether to shoot up or stay below zero. it's, it's acts, kind of a filter function. if you want to Loosely draw analogy, let's quickly look at a, a basic neuron. here I'm looking at a linear neuron. this doesn't have a nonlinearity, it it just is doing a weighted sum of its inputs. here, as we have our input, sorry, our input consist of: this is our input, which is a two- dimensional input. first is X1, which is your x coordinate, let's say, and your X2, which is, let's say, your y coordinate. and here, all throughout the figures, the kind of notation is: blue represents a positive quantity and orange represents a negative quantity. keep that. and if, if I, if you're sometimes when, when I'm denoting data points or class classification, they represent two different classes. here, as we can see, we have this neuron, which which essentially is this module, it's, it's taking two inputs: X1, X2, it's multiplying X1 with W1, X2 with W2, summing them up and giving this output, sorry, which is z that we denote, it's W1 * X1 + W2 * X2. that's that's how neuron looks. and on the right I have shown the decision boundary that this neuron creates. essentially, depending on what your W1 and W2, this decision boundary will look something different. but right now, for for some W1 and W2, the decision boundary looks this and it it is always going to be a linear kind of a decision boundary, because it's it's a linear function, the what a neuron is modeling. and yeah, here you can see, see that for this particular data, this decision boundary perfectly fits the data that we have. that's what a linear neuron looks. now let's add a nonlinearity in this neuron. essentially, we still have the same, this is our input, but our neuron now has this additional component which is our nonlinearity. in this case, in the diagram I'm showing you a rectified linear unit which is, in short, called value. it's a simple function, which we'll see later, but it's essentially, for all the negative input, it stays at zero and for the all the positive input, it linearly gives you the identity function. this is our x-axis, this is R of x. it's a very simple nonlinearity, that is it. it just kind of partitions your the input that it is seeing. if it's negative it remains zero. if it's positive or non- negative, it just gives you the input itself. it's a very simple nonlinearity but this itself is very powerful if you- we'll see later that if you, if you start stacking up neurons with such nonlinearities, you can just draw arbitrary. you can fit any arbitrary function. I hope far the the the things that I presented are clear. I'll take some time to see if there any questions or anything confusing with the notations. okay, there are. let's let's take a brief look at some of the non nonlinearities that are popular in deep learning and kind of constitute the basic nonlinearities. first is relu. as I said, it's, it's a function G of X which gives zero if x is less than zero and it is x if x is greater thanal zero. it's a simple function. it's kind of looks this and yeah, but. but it's still quite powerful and some variations of it is still used in everything that you all the top deep learning products that you see, including chart GPT and stuff. this is a Rel nonlinearity. and then sigmoid, as we saw in the last lecture, it's, it's, it's it, it's the function that it represents. is this 1+ E power minus X? essentially it's. it's. its graph looks something this- for maybe I should use color: for all the negative values it remains at zero, not all the negative values, but if, if you're X is very negative, it kind of stays close to zero and then at xal to 0, it gets to 0.5 and then at, slowly it start increasing and then at one, it, it, it gets capped at the value of one as you keep increasing your X. it kinds of acts as a gated gating function that if, if, if your X is very negative, it is zero. if your X is very positive or even moderately positive, it it gets to one and in between it it gradually Rises to Z, 0 to one. that's how the curve looks. this we have already seen in our previous lecture: tan, tan H is also. it's. it's the inverse tan function and it's essentially the same as sigmoid, just that it's a scaled and shifted version of sigmoid, that it's, instead of being capped between 0 and 1, it is between minus one and one. it's almost identical to sigmoid, just that it's one minus one. it's it's kind of two times wider than sigmoid and but- and the other thing is Zer, it is at zero, very similar to S. then we have soft Max. Soft Max is something different than these three nonlinearities in the sense that these nonlinearities are act on a scalar, that is this x. that far I've been giving it's, it's, it's a real number, but soft Max acts on a vector. here let me note the vector with different notation here. my X is a scaler, a vector of real numbers. what it does is it, it, it? it takes a vector and gives you a vector, it, it, it. G is my soft Max is R to the N to R to the n, and the ith element of this Vector is going to be E, power, x, i divided by sum of e, all the xjs where J is from 1 to n, it's, it's. it's typically used to convert a raw Vector that that that is unbounded, that is it's, it can. all the values inside the vector can be anything between minus infinity to infinity, and then it takes that vector and converts it into a probability distribution. that is, if you see that one good property that this has is summation of all the gxi from i1 to n is one that it, it satisfies the probability constraint. that, and more on top of that, g of XI is greater than, is greater than zero, and these are the two things that we need for a Vector of scalers to represent a probability distribution. we'll see this often at the output layer of a neural network. we'll talk about what output layer of a neural network is, but whenever we want to convert some raw Vector quantities to a probability distribution Vector of probabilities, then we use this softmax function. and, yeah, this is also something very popular that we'll see later. okay, that concludes the brief discussion on the nonlinearities. let's see how these neurons can be interconnected to form a deep neural network. a deep neural network essentially is a layered arrangement of neurons that that forms a neural network. for example, in this, each of we have two hidden layers, this and this, and then we have the, the input layer, as before, and then here is our output layer, which entally- there's a neuron setting here as well- which which gives out just one single scaler. here we we have all of, remember, all of these neurons are some represent just this quantity, just that they are arranged in a stacked up manner. now let's look at how, how do we how, how does a how does this whole neural network acts as a function, how does it take a input and gives you the output that you want. let me try to write the some notations. first, remember that each of the edges represents a weight. the, as I said, the notation that here I'm using is: a blue color represents a negative quantity, orange blue color represents a positive quantity, orange represents a negative quantity and the thickness represents the weight of that quantity. here, if you see, these are the weights of your neural network. this let me denote as: sorry, yeah, this is the weight for the first neuron and the first input. I'll represent w11 and this is the weight for first neuron and second input. sorry, I'll represent as 2 comma 1. and similarly, we can have a weight for each of the edges that we see here. here the notation that we'll be using is because this is for our second hidden layer. this takes the first input and it's for the first hidden new neuron of the layer two, p, 2. if you look at this neuron, which I'm going to call N1 one, because this represents which layer it belongs to: layer one, this represents what is the index of this neuron in that layer. this n11 has two parameters, which is W1, 1, 1 and BL 2. similarly, if if we take this hidden neuron, this I'll call n one, 2 presents layer two presents index of this [Music] neuron. this has three parameters, such as W 2, 1, 1, 2, 2, 2 comma 1 W 3. as you can see, all of these neurons comes with their own parameters. if if you go on to write the whole equations it will give become quite messy. how, how we typically represent a neural network is in terms of matrices. each layer gets can be represent as a matrix of size, in this case 2 cross 3, because it acts, it has two, it takes two inputs and it produces three outputs. we can represent hidden layer one, H1, as W1, which which is a matrix of size 2 cross 3. and then we can represent hidden layer 2 as W2, which is Matrix of size three cross sorry, Case two. and then we have the output layer. as I said, imagine a neuron setting here this. in this case its shape is going to be 2 cross one, because it's taking two inputs, producing one output. and one thing that I missed is there is also the inputs can also be considered as a layer. in this case the input is just one data point. but typically in deep learning we deal with multiple, multiple inputs at once. we create a batch of inputs. in this case, let's say the batch, are in the batch. we have only have one data point. our input is. input is of shape 2, cross one, where this one represents the bat size in this particular case, but it could be anything. this is our X and now if we go on writing our what, what function this, this whole neural network, represents, we can write that the, and write z one which is just the weighted sum after hidden layer one. it's that's going to be. let's see the shapes. it's. we want to have three outputs and we have two inputs. it's going to be. if someone wants to help me in what, what's? it's going to be w time X. but does anyone is? is this right? just writing W1 matrix multiplication with the X? no, right, the shapes don't match. sorry, someone was saying something. yeah said. should it be X transpose times, the W, X transpose time? W also works. it depends on what kind of notation you want to use, but it does work. it will. if, if you, we, I do, X transpose time W, this will give me something of the shape 1 cross three, where I have shifted the batch axis on the first one right, and here this is my output Axis, or I could have written instead of this. I could have done the other way without Shifting the batch AIS, which is W 1 transpose X, which will give me 3 cross 1, where the batch access remains consistent. for the sake of of this lecture, I'll use this notation, which is: I'll use W transpose X to denote the linear combination. but yeah, you could have done X transpose W, it just depends on what notation you want to use. this is my, but remember, this is not the final output of my hidden layer one. this is just the weighted sums. I now need to apply the activation. let's assume that in this neural network we are using sigmoid activation, which we represent by Sigma our. maybe let me use a different color. after applying the activation, we'll get sigmoid of Z1, and this is an element wise operation. it doesn't really change the shape of your output. it still gives you a three cross one entity. and now this A1 is what? this, this whole output that will be seeing from the collective three neurons in the hidden layer one. okay, now that we have seen first layer in action, we can now see second layer. the weighted Sim of the second layer is going to be something w two transpose. and now, remember, this hidden Layer Two is acting, such as the output of hidden layer one is input for hidden Layer Two. now we'll multiply this with a of one and what's the shape that I'll get? I'll get the shape, since it's W2 transpose. I'll get 2 cross 1. remember, this one is still my batch axis and this two is the output that I'm seeing from hidden Layer Two. and finally, I can, similar to Hidden layer one, I can do A2 as sigmoid of Z2. and then let's assume that there is another neuron which, which is of size 2 cross 1. my Z3 is going to be W3 transpose E2 and, assuming this is Al, this also has the sigmoid activation. this is going to be Sig of c 3. and what's the shape of this? it's Z 1 cross one batch. that's the final output that my neural network is giving me for a batch of data points which have two Dimensions as the features- and in this case there there are only the batch size is one. that's why I'm getting a 1 cross one. but if I had n data points in my batch, I would have got a R1 cross n quantity at the end, and A3 is my final output. and that's how typically a neutal network works. I hope this is clear and spe, specifically, the notations, are clear. I did. it's not written that cleanly as I I imagined, but yeah, if there are any questions here, please let me know, because we'll be using this notation and then this way of thinking about neural networks later in the class and later throughout the whole course as well. okay, let's come to the question that why do we even need this nonlinearity? essentially, what we said initially was that a neuron takes some inputs and then it's it. it needs to accumulate those inputs into one signal. why is the summation not enough? I'm sure some of you already know the answer, but still, if you, if others who don't, they want to make a guess, or the people who know, they want to say what's the intuition behind having a nonlinearity inside a neuron? we can model more functions. but why not? if I just had in this neural network, if I just had linear neurons, why is that not enough CU? we might as well just use linear regression. we didn't. there's no point in using a neur network if it's just going to be linear, right? yeah, that's, that's true that if you have a bunch of linear neurons and you connect it in any way that you want, you will still end up getting a linear function. and- and I mean this, all of these diagrams that I've been using are from this playground tensive flow. let's quickly take a look at what for this dummy example that we had. if we had bunch of linear neurons connected in a fairly complex setup in a neural network and if we did training over it- anything that we do- we'll still get a linear separator of data, and particularly for this kind of data, which is a concentric circles, we won't be able to separate it. you can try to write the math and you'll see that you will. at the end, the neural network will be a it's. it will just represent a w * X operation. let's see what. go back, let's see if, if we had a Ru activation here and and then we did training of our model, you can see it. it can give you some. the hidden neurons here can give you a part, a kind of a partition of your whole space, and then they can be combined in a way by the later neurons to give you a much more complex boundary. for example, it's- this is creating a parabolic shape from the right side, this is a parabolic shape from the left side, and then the these things can be combined to give you concentric circles. if you see, even with a simp, very simple nonlinearity, such as reu, you, you were able to approximate it. even if you have a sigmoid activation, that would still give you a similar result, just that it will. okay. in this case it's long, okay, with enough learning it does give you, as you can see, that even with activations they can be finicky at. sometimes, depending on the type of problem you solving, you'll have to choose the right kind of activations, but having a nonlinearity really helps in modeling complex data. coming back to our lecture, nonlinearity gives us a superow. that combination of nonlinear neurons is much more expressive and it is it is powerful that it can be shown that a neural network with at least one hidden layer and which has a sufficiently large number of neurons and an appropriate activation function, it can approximate any continuous function, that to a any desired degree of accuracy. I'll give a slight intuition about this, this theorem. essentially, let's say that we have this function, this blue curve that we want to approximate. how we can approximate it. we can construct a neural network which has one hidden layer and it has enough number of neurons in it and it can approximate this function to an arbitrary degree, to an arbitrary accuracy, and how we can construct such a function. the key idea is that two neurons can be constructed to give a pulse function. that is, if you have, for example, relu activation, then you can have one neuron which gives you the one side of your step function, the other neuron which gives you the other side of your step function, and you can combine with the weight one and minus one to give you this step function and this width you can control depending on the what values that you choose for T1. typically there's a bias also in your neurons which, for brevity, I didn't show earlier. but depending on the biases that you choose, you can shift these activations left or right and you can give, get a very arbitrary smaller with T1, Step pulse function as well, and and then all of these pairs of neurons can be just summed up at the output layer to give you a, a bunch of rectangles which approximate it. if you keep reducing the width of your pulse functions, then you can just get to an arbitrary degree of approximation for this continuous function. yeah, feel free to read more about it, but it's, it's u a pretty neat construction and pretty powerful way to see that with just simp nonlinearity is we are able to get something this complex. yeah, I realized I'm running a bit short on time. I'll speed up a little bit now, but still, any questions far. okay, coming to loss functions: the remember how we started was deep learning has three key components. one is the model, then is the loss function and then is your optimization process. we have seen the model far, which is a deep neural network, and how we do computation with it. now let's come to the loss function. loss is essentially a measure of how good our model is for an input. usually it's Quantified in a negative way, that we measure the cost of an incorrect prediction. if, if, if your loss is zero, then your model, if your loss is less, then your model is better. it's it's simply a notation or a convention kind of a thing. you could have defined it the other way as well, but it makes things mathematically easier to justify. sometimes it's it's again, it's a scalar measure of how good are model is for an input. typically in deep learning we measure the empirical loss, which is that we measure the total loss averaged over an entire data sets. let's say we have n data points, then our typically our loss is going to be 1 by n summation / I to n and the loss function which takes your model parameters, which I'll represent by Theta, and your ath data point, which I'll represent by XI, and then you sum over your all of your entire data set and then you take the average. this is what we call empirical loss or empirical risk. we have seen loss functions in in far in the lecture. the first one that we started was a regression loss function which was mean squar error. here U, we, we are given our Yi is a scalar that we want to approximate. we make a scalar prediction, which is our Yi hat for the I data point, and we take its, the squar difference, as our loss function. our small L is going to be just the predicted scalar minus the actual true scalar squared. this is this has. we have seen this already in regression. then in the last lecture we saw binary crossentropy for doing logistic regression and this is essentially. we had a two vehicle problem, classification problem, that is, we want to identify whether this class is present or not. our Yi is 0 or 1 and then y i hat is the probability of class being present, which is given by your module and then our loss is U, this quantity. the negative of this quantity, which I've taken here outside, the negative of this quantity is our loss for that data point and this we call the binary crossentropy. and remember this works for a kind of a two-way classification problem. that is, you want to identify whether something is present or not. a generalization of this binary cross entropy is the cross entropy function which, if, if you really look deep, carefully it, if, if you have it, it looks very similar to the binary cross entropy. it's just a general version of it. this is for if we have two, instead of two-way classification we have cway classification problem, that is, we have C classes to classify into. then we can write our loss in this way and if, if you if see equal to two, you can see that it will be will be the same equation as the binary crossentropy. the. this loss is typically remember here our Yi hat is a vector of size C and this yig J hat needs to be a probability distribution. typically in deep learning, as I said, whenever you encounter a probability distribution, you model it using soft Max. this why I had is often, or almost all the times, a result of a softmax operation it's. it's cross entropy is very much. if you in deep learning, you'll see it is paired with your soft Max operation, but this is the loss function. if you have a cway classification problem, let's let's take some. take a look at some examples and see. for the first example, we have this input of an image of a cat or it. it may not be a cat and that's our task that. is there a cat in the image? what kind of loss function will use in this case? I know it's simple, but still feel free to speak up. would you use binary cross entropy? yeah, because it's a two-way classification problem that we want to identify if a cat is present or not. the right or the appropriate loss function for this task is going to be BCE, which is binary cross entropy. let's take another example. let's say we want to determine the age of the cat. what loss function should we use now? squ error? yeah, because we want to. our output is now just a scalar quanti which which we we can use something mean squ error to do regression over it. also, it can potentially be solved using cross entropy as well. we can just model every age category or every age that exist as a separate class and do it, but in this particular case I don't think it's the right formulation. yeah, but I just wanted to say that that kind of that can also be used, but means squ error is the more appropriate option in this case. and then it could be that we, we- it's not just a oneway classific, a two-way classification, that is, there is a cat or not. let's say, we want to determine a cat versus a dog, versus a bird. this becomes now a three-way classification. for this, cross entropy, specifically cross entropy paired with soft Max, is a appropriate loss function for this task. okay, any questions far, because now we'll be moving to the next component. coming to the next component, which is optimization. remember this: here we'll be talking about optimization on a very broad level. we'll have a specific lectures dedicated to optimization and the better versions of optimization we can do. but here I just wanted to introduce optimization in the context of deep learning. and how does it look? on a broad level? the overview of optimization is: the goal is that we want to minimize the loss by adjusting the model parameters. let's say, our loss surface looks something. this in this particular case, we only have two parameters, W1 and W2, and for each choice of W1 and W2 we can. we can have a loss for W1 comma W2, and let's say we have some data D this, this loss will be a scalar quantity. sorry, and this is what is represented on this axis for a particular choice of loss of W1 and W2. we can get some loss here. if you draw the whole loss surface, it will look something. this, and the goal of deep learning or goal of the whole ml process, is to get your some model parameters which minimize this loss. which, which, which gives you the global minimum of this loss. one very Brute Force thing that you can think of is you can just try bunch of random W1 and W2, or maybe a grid of W1 and W2, and then evaluate your loss on each of those choices and then you can choose the one which gives you the least loss. but of course, even in this case- which, where we only have two parameters, the search space is pretty big because it's continuous. even then this Brute Force approach might not, is going to be infeasible and will not give you the right results that you're looking for. but typically in deep learning we easily have billions of parameters these days, or even touching trillion of parameters. in that case it just becomes invasible to even think of something brot force. we we use. the most popular optimization process that is being used in deep learning is gradient descent, which is we iteratively update parameters in the opposite direction of the gradient. we we start from a random initialization of our W1 and W2. let's say this point is here, and then we compute the loss, compute it, the gradient with respect to W1 and W2, and take the a step, a scaled step, in the opposite direction of the gradient. the scaled opposite direction will look something- this here it's denoted in the picture but maybe it's not very clear to see, and we keep taking these steps again and again and this will eventually, for some lost surfaces it is guaranteed to arrive at the Global minimum. but even though it's quite surprising- and it's, it's one of the probably unknown parts of deep learning- is that even currently in deep learning, LW surfaces don't look this smooth or this neat. they are very Jagged, lot of filled with a lot of valleys and plane areas. but still this gradient descent works, or some version of gradient descent Works, which is just the simple process of iteratively updating parameters in the opposite direction of the gradient. that's, that's the kind of the overview of gradient descent. if we try to look at in terms of an algorithm, the pseudo Cod would look something this: that you initialize your parameters, your W weights, randomly or from from a, some distribution and U. how you initialize your parameters also play a role in modern deep learning. this will, in one of the homeworks will take a look, it will. you you'll experience that with different initializations you'll get different results. but in this lecture I'm not going to cover it. but you initialize your parameters- for now let's just assume you're initializing randomly from a normal distribution and then for E, for until convergence, for each iteration you want to compute the loss, L. you want to compute the gradients of the loss with respect to each of your parameters that you have. this will give you your gradient vector and you update your parameters by a scaled negative of your gradient. this ITA, this EA, is our scale, which is typically the learning rate, and this negative DL by DW is our gradient, the negative gradient. that's the pseudo code for gradient descent. but okay, I mean the algorithm looks simple and all of these steps, initializing parameters- we know we can do, call np Rand, Computing the loss. we saw that we can do. how to do a forward pass with neural network and then you just need to plug your loss calculation equation. there we this also looks simpler once we have DL by D W quantity, then this is just one equation which can be just written in one line. but this, the Computing the gradients of the loss with respect to W. this is the one of the hard parts of this algorithm and that we achieve in case of neural networks or in case of any kind of functions, continuous functions. we can do it. we need a efficient way to compute the gradients for all parameters and we do it using by, via back propagation, and it is back propagation is essentially the chain rule to propagate errors, starting from the output to the input. just a refresher on the Chain rule: chain rule for a parameter, Theta that affects the loss, l, through an intermediate variable, Z. we can write d? l by D Theta as d? l by d z * d z by D Theta. that's your chain Rule. and back propagation typically involves a forward pass and a backward pass. forward pass is the, the, the, what we already saw that in neural networks, how to compute the final output of your function. and forward pass just means you in along with Computing the, just the final output. you also compute all the intermediate activations as well, because that will be needing in the backward pass. you compute all intermediate activation, ZL and Al that we saw earlier, and then in the backward pass, starting at the output layer, you compute the gradient and propagate it backwards. I mean it's, it's, I know here, I'm just saying it, but let's, let's take a look at a sample task and how, how to do back propagation on that task. let's, let's take this sample task that we saw earlier. that it's. it's a concentric classification problem. you have your orange data points on your outer ring and then you have the blue data points in the in in the inside, and you want to CL classify Orange from Blue, maybe something we want to get a boundary. this here let's say we, because it's a two-way classification problem. we'll be using the binary cross entropy loss function- sorry, there should be a negative here- and the model that we'll be using for this sample task is going to be a, a neural network with one hidden layer. it's there's only one hidden layer, H1, and then this is my output layer and this is my input layer and we will be using sigmoid activation and there are three hidden neurons in my activation and in my hidden layer H, layer one, the optimization process. as I showed earlier, it will be the gradient descent method that will compute the loss, compute gradients, update parameters. but, as we saw, this is the hard part. that's what we'll be diving a bit deeper into the forward pass. let me write again. we have already seen this, but for X, we can Define as a matrix, which is of 2 cross 1, has two features and one data point in this case, and then our H1 1, which is parameterized by W1, is going to be a 3 CR 2 Matrix, and then my output layer is going to be W2, which is 1 cross 3, and my forward pass is going to look: my Z1 is w 1 transpose X. my A1 is going to be sigmoid of W1 transpose X, or let me just write z. my Z2 is going to be W2 transpose A1, and my A2, which is also my final prediction from my neural network, I'll call it my y hat as well- is going to be sigmoid of Z2. my loss function is going to be here because there's only one data point. I'm just writing it for that it's going to be y. * log of Y hat + 1 - y. *. log of 1 - y hat. negative of this. any question, far this we have kind of already seen. we have seen a more complicated version of it. right now there's only one hidden layer. it's simpler to write. that's what my forward pass is going to look, and remember that I'm along the way I'm. I'm storing my Z1, my A1, my Z2, my A2, because that I'll be needing in my backward pass. okay, let's see how the backward pass looks and for this particular demonstration, I'll we want to compute our d? l by D, W 1, 1 comma 2, that is, for this particular weight, w Comm two. we want to compute the gradient with respect of the D? L by d, this weight. as I said, let's let's try to draw our chain. we have our X, that using W1, we s using W1. we got to Z1 using sigmoid, we got to A1, then using W2, but to Z2. then, using sigo, we got to our y hat, which is also A2. then, applying our loss function, here we the BC fun loss function, we ended up being at L. we want to get D? L and by d, a W1 comma 2 is part of this Matrix. we want to go backward in this chain, the. does anyone to help me get or just want to say what, what this chain rule is going to look? Nish, I think the slide is stuck on the optimization forward pass. oh, okay, somehow, yeah, okay, oh, I didn't realize this, sorry. okay, you can see the slide now, right, and does anyone to help me write the chain rule here? maybe DL, Dy hat or duy hat? okay, multiplied by Dy hat over dz2 and basically, yeah, you just keep following the, the chain, the diagram that you drew out, except backwards. the next one would be dz2 over da A1. right, we can keep going backwards. should have written it more neatly. yeah, that's what your chain rule is going to look. and specifically because, because we are kind of just in this particular example, we are just looking at the W1, comma 2, we can kind of further simplify this into: not all the parameters in our Z1 is going to get affected, as we can see, there's just a single chain. we can simplify this into: d? l by d y hat [Music] times C2. are you writing, Nish, yeah, oh, you can't see. yeah, somehow, okay, I don't. I don't know why there's a lag. I see, sorry about [Music], that C2. we can see that only this, the, the second component of A2 is affecting it. we can just write here: tell A1 two little bit messy, I remove this part. I've just simplified it for this specific weight value that we we are seeking here. I just written the specific coordinates which are going to affect this quantity. I don't have too much time, I'll just quickly go over it, but let me this: this quantity, if, if you simplify for the binary cross entropy loss, this will turn out to be a very simple quantity which is going to be your y hat minus y. this, this whole quantity, and then D, Z2 by d, a12, as we saw. it's, it's how they are related: a A1, two is kind of it's, it's it's we. we multiplied A1 with W2 to get Z2. that's why it's. it's only going to be if, yeah, my Z2 was to to transpose A1. that's the relation between Z2 and A1. this quantity, if you compute this will turn out to be: this will turn out to be just W2 and the second coordinate of W2, 2 and this quantity, because the relation between this is the sigmoid Activation. this will turn out to be the derivative of sigmoid or sigmoid derivative is sigmoid, sigmoid value * 1 minus sigmoid. I'm just using this property to quickly write the equation here it's going to be a 1, 2 * two and this again is just this: Z1 was W1 transpose X. this will turn out to be just the second coordinate of my X element, do X2. that's what your gradient will look for this particular weight weight value. and here I have shown in just just for this particular W. but in practice, as in forward pass, as we were dealing with matrices and we had this compact representation, we also even in backward pass, we we compute the, the gradients in in in a matrix way for the whole weight vectors, we compute simultaneously using Matrix operations similar to the forward pass. it's going to be it. all. the scalar values will get replaced by your matrices or the intermediate vectors that you got but that you will have to do in your homework. you can get an idea how to do that. but for brav, here I have just explored how to compute gradient for with respect to one weight value, that kinds of kind of ends, our the full Al algorithm, deep learning algorithm on a high level, that that we set out to describe in this lecture, which is the step. one is your forward pass. you compute activations. step two is your loss computation. you use your, the output of your neural network, to compute the loss. then you do the backward pass using back propagation and then you do the parameter update according to the gradient descent update Rule and you repeat this process for multiple steps until convergence in practice. I just want to take one minute to quickly just say that there are other things that you want to, you need to incorporate into a successful deep learning algorithm. that is one thing is efficiency. right now gradient descent operates, or on a the full data set, but that is going to be inefficient. and in last lecture as well, we briefly touched upon it that you want to do a mini batch version of grade and descent to gain efficiency and better convergence. this will explore later in the class. and then also you, the learning rate. we did didn't really talk about the learning rate in the gradient descent method and that is also something you don't want to keep constant. there are adaptive versions of your gradient descent which, depending on the kind of lost surfaces that they are seeing, they adapt their learning rate or their scaling of your gradients based on what kind of loss surface they operating in. this also will Explore More in the optimization Le coming ahead. and then there is regularization. that we saw in our previous classes, but here, in case of deep learning, regularization will look something different and this also will explore later. and then rest of the homeworks.