okay, let's start today's lecture. okay, we have concluded talking about regression and we are going to move on to classification. in regression we realized, at least in Le squares regression. we realized that you know, we needed to do a review of linear algebra, which I did, and hopefully that was helpful to most of you. in as we go through more and more of machine learning, supervised machine learning, we'll see that we need other Concepts too, especially from probability Theory. before starting to talk about classification, I'm going to give a lecture on probability Theory background that we will need for, oops, that we will need for this class. okay, I'll talk about probability ability Theory background. we'll spend today talking about it and next time, when we start the first lecture on classification, we'll kind of realize that we kind of need it almost right away. probabilistic modeling is a very important Concept in machine learning and we could also have used it in regression, but we will see very quickly that we will need it in discussing various classification of projects. let's assume that we have just two random variables. for now we have random variables X and Y, and right now I'll just assume that these random variables are discrete. they take values X1- X2 through XM and Y takes values y1, Y2 through y, l. when I have these two discrete random variables, I can look at their joint distribution and think of it as a table. I have join distribution P of XY, right, and I can represent it. I can look at the table over here. the columns are indexed by the X values or the X random variable, the Y. the rows are indexed by y. the different values that y can take is y1, Y, 2, y, j, a, y, l and X is X1, X2, x, i, m, x, m, okay, and for example, if I am looking for the jth row over here, YJ, and the ith column, right, this is I will. if I want to be very particular, I will say that this is p probability of x = to x, i and y = to y, j, okay, and many times we don't want to have much such a cumbersome rotation and we'll just say that this is probability of x, i comma, YJ, okay, and now suppose you know I have dealing with these run variables that can take these discrete values. you know I can kind of have n trials, okay, and in the N trials I can record NJ as the number of times in these trials we observe that X = to x, i and y = to y, j. okay, and as I start doing more and more trials, that, as n tends to Infinity, you know what this is- that pxi, y, j will be equal to this estimate will converge to the actual probability values. okay, when we are talking about random variables, there are two important Concepts that are important. one is called the marginal distribution. even though I have a joint distribution, I might be interested in what is PX = to XY. I'm marginalizing overall the Y outcomes. that's why this is also called as the marginal distribution. okay, and that is going to be just the summation. okay, remember, the y takes the values y1 through y, l. I look at P of x = x, i, y = y, j, right, and I sum over- sorry, this should be J = to one, 12. okay, I'm marginalizing over Y and I get the marginal distribution, P of x = to XY. and now, if I look at kind of the details about what it is, right, this is going to be summation of J = 1 to l. if I have n trials right, this is each of these values. remember, is n, i, j ided by n? okay, now, n is kind of a constant. I can keep get it outside. and then summation of Ni J I can call as CI. okay, for example, over here, in my table over here, if I record the number n, j in each cell, right, then I can list the kind of cumulative sums as C1, C2, CI, CM. okay, and clearly c i is equal to the Sum along this entire column, right, summation of N J with my J is going from one through L, okay, and that's what's coming out over here. this turns out kind of gives you one important rule, okay, which is kind of the sum Rule, and then the other than marginal probabilities, and an important concept is conditional probability. okay, conditional probability, suppose I'm looking at the conditional probability of y equal to YJ, given that I've already observed that x equal to x, i, okay, and that will be denoted by P, of Y = to YJ, given that xal to XY, right, and if you think about the table over here, right, this is kind of saying that you're now only really concentrating on this part of the joint distribution. you're looking at that X is already given to be XI, and then what is the probability then that I get this, instead of being n j ided by n, that is the probability of x? i comma y j given n, it'll be an i j given by the divided by the marginal distribution. right, it's going to be equal to n? j, sry, n i j ided by C. okay and just, we, you know, had this more concise form for the joint distribution. we'll also write this as P of YJ given XR, which what we see is that P of YJ given XI is n? j divided by CI, right, as of course the number of Trials becomes larger and larger. and let me just write that again. P of YJ given x, i. okay, or sorry, the remember the joint distribution. P of y j comma x, i is equal to n i ided, okay, n j, and I can say that this is equal to n? j divided by CI time c i / it's still n? j ided by c i, c by n, but now I've written it in terms of, well, the conditional distribution and the marginal distribution. if you again, let me kind of just write this out: P of Y = to y j, x = to x i, right, this is equal to, over here, this part right, which is the same as this part over here. okay, this is equal to P of y = y j conditioned on x = x- i, and this is the marginal distribution. remember, we saw this Above. This is p of x = to x i. okay, this is p of x = to X. okay, this is often known as the product rule. if you, for example, take a look at the book by Chris Bishop, then he will also have a section devoted to this. this is the product. okay, just to summarize, right, I have two rules. this is the sum rule. I'm just writing it now in terms of the random variables. right, you get the marginal distribution by marginalizing or summing over all the Y outcomes. okay, this is the sum Rule. and then we get the product rule. P of X comma Y is equal to P of Y given x times P of X. this is the sum Rule and this is theule. okay, now we could have conditioned either on X or we could have conditioned on y, right, if I look at P of X comma y, right, what I've written above is that I have this equal to P of Y given X, P of X, but I could easily have conditioned over the other variable first. right, I could have written this as P of. I can write this as PX given y * py. okay, and that gives us the famous base Ru. this is used a lot in machine learning, especially when you do probabilistic machine learning, right? Bas rule is that if I want to compute py given X, okay, I will basically write this: remember, py given X is our here, because this is something that I want to compute. then I can write this as the x given y * py / PX. P of x given y, time B1 divided by okay, many times this is known as prior. for example, we'll see that, you know. suppose we want to look at classification of an email into spam or not spam. in that case Y is a discrete variable that takes values either in spam or not spam and then there might be a prior distribution that you know. hey, maybe most emails are normal and not spam and py equal to spam might be much lower than py not equal to spam. that's something that we can either guess from the data or we may have some reason to give a kind of different prior and this is known as the posterior. in the email example, the X might be, you know, some kind of data, right? XI Yi Pairs, and what you want to do, know, is the posterior, which is, given the data, what is the probability that it is that the email, for example, is Spam or not spam? but what really helps us in making the decision is p of X comma x given y. right, that is known as either the evidence or the data. okay, for example, which which will model, right, given the spam emails, what do the spam email distribution looks, given normal emails, what our normal emails look? okay, and if you notice over here, in the denominator we have have P of X, right, that's the marginal distribution and I can substitute PX over here. right, I get that this is equal to PX, this the numerator as above: BX, y, PX given y *, py, and then the summation over Y, which is p of X comma y. okay, and I can now write the denominator as again this and I can apply the product rule over here and I can say that this is e of x given y d y. okay, you can see that the numerator is one particular x equal to X and the denominator is summing over all the particular y. okay, that is base rule. that comes up quite a lot. I've given you a very quick introduction. let's look at a particular example. okay, but before we do that. you know, just one kind of notion which is comes up again quite a lot is the notion of Independence. okay, two random variables are independent of each other. if pxi, comma YJ can just be factored as pxi, time PJ, P of YJ just in terms of the marginals, and you don't need any, it is the joint distribution, is the product distribution of the marginals, for example, and in particular, this implies that P of YJ, given XI, is just equal to P of Y. it doesn't really the conditional distribution is, you know, does not depend upon XI. okay, this is kind of the notion of Independence. let's take an example that illustrates many of the above things, right, and how we can infer some probabilities given this information about The Joint distribution or the marginal distribution. okay, let's take an example where we have two, two boxes. okay, we have two boxes. this will be blue and red, and we have two types of fruit. this will be apples and oranges. okay, let me draw red box. I have a red box, okay, and then I have a blue box, okay, and suppose somebody says: hey, you know, we are given that. you know, the probability of choosing the red is going to be is0, 4, which is 2 / 5 and the probability of choosing the blue box is6, the probabilties should sum up to one. this is three. okay, and now suppose I have in the red box- okay, suppose I have, you know, two apples and six oranges. and suppose in the red box I have three apples plus six oranges. okay, the orange color is here oranges, and I guess I can have. why should be? well, let's go with green. let's say, Suppose there are Granny Smith apples, green apples, okay, just to draw it, we have two apples over here. and then we have how many oranges? six oranges and then the other one. in my notes- I don't want to get change things too much on my notes- I think we have one orange, we have one orange and we have. okay, what is the probability? what is the probability of an apple given in Red Box? okay, come on, somebody help me out. one over4 is 1 over four. right, that's 2 divided by eight. there are eight pieces of fruit in the red box. somebody be, be ready. in the red box we have oranges, somebody else? oh, you want to communicate by chat? okay, RAB says three4. Okay, that was wrong. I was thinking about the last problem. I, I saw the red arrow. I confused the numbers, okay, but is this not correct? probability of orange given a red box: is that 34s? oh, that, that is yes, that is, it is 34s. right, yeah, this is 34s. okay, somebody else? probability of Apple given blue box- somebody I haven't heard from far in class, sorry, could you just repeat that: 34, 34, right. probability of Apple, green apple, given a blue box: okay, there are three apples out of four. and then probability of orange given a blue box is one out of four, one out of four. thank you, okay, now I can start writing this now in a two-dimensional table, right, just, we had for X and Y. let's suppose my box is is the one random variable. FRS is another random variable. there's a red box, there's a blue box, there's an apple, there's an orange. okay, now do we know the joint distribution? what is? let's Suppose there are four things, right. P of a comma r. p of joint distribution of orange and red. joint distribution of apple and blue. join distribution of orange and blue. somebody wants to tell me, give me the formula for p a comma R. let's suppose we apply base rule: is a PA a Time PA given r b * a? did you say p? a given R times, p r, perfect. I can also have written it as P of a, p of R given a. let's come to that later, but but we know this right. P of a given R is what? 1/4 from above, and P of R is 2 fths, that is one10. what is p o comma R? The Joint distribution. similarly, P of O given R, time, P of R- okay, P of R is 2 FS, as before, and P of O given R is 34s. that becomes two equal to 3. now what about this part? is this formula wrong or right? it is correct, right, but do we know what P of a is? we don't right. it's not kind of straightforward because the process involves picking the Box first and then picking a fruit from the box. okay, but we can try to. we will try to infer that, right. we'll try to see that the sum Rule and the product rule will allow us to figure out what P of a is and what P of our given is. okay. but meanwhile we have P of Apple, given the boxes blue. again, apply P of a given B. P of B. okay, P of B is 3 fths and P of a given p is, over here, 34, right? okay, that becomes 9 by 20. and P of orange, given blue box, P of box. P of blue box is 3 fths and this is this is speid. I can start filling this join distribution table. right, p a comma R is 1/10. the O comma R is 310. this is 99, 20ths and this is 3: 20 and you should verify that. we were given that p of R is 25s. right, if I add these two up, right, if I add P of r a comma R plus P of O comma R, what does it add up to 4/10, which is 2 FS? right, and that P of R, and you can see that that's exactly what was given over far. I haven't made a mistake. okay, and this is. p is 12 / 20, which is equal to 3 ided. this is p of and you have verify that. this is same. okay, what about probability of picking an apple now? okay, somebody remember that. that was not. that's not right in front of us. right, we have to do a marginalization. right, we add up the P R and P A B. yes, it is PA a comma R plus PA a comma B, and that is 1110 + 920 and that's equal to 112. okay, that's this sum. and what about P of O? well, P of O is p of O comma R, plus P of O B is equal to 310 + 320th and that is equal to 920. we could have also gotten it from here, right, it's basically 1 minus 11 by 20 is = to 9 by 20. okay, what about? let's say this thing that we were talking about P of that the. suppose you are have picked your, observe that you've picked an orange. suppose you observed you picked an orange. what is the probability that you pick the? you will pick a red box, given Orange, right. again, we can apply base rule, that is p of O comma given r. p of R / P of O. what is p of O given? are 310, 34 right over here? oh, sorry, yeah, sorry, I meant 34. yeah, yeah, yeah, P of O given R is 34, remember, if you have a red box, then there are six oranges out of eight. that's why it is 34s times. oh, I could also have written this: oh, it's okay. what is p of r? P of R is 2 fths divided by P of O, which is 912. I could have just, you know, said that this is equal to P of O comma R, and I'd already done this, I kind of repeated it, but it's okay, right, this is equal to. it's the same as this quantity: right, this is the same as this. okay, that is equal to 310 over 9, 20ths. right, that's equal to 310 * 20 by 9 and that's equal to 2. okay, you've seen that, you know, it's all very consistent. now, right, if the you have the sum Rule and then you have the product rule and they give us the very important base. any questions, far? okay, we've talked a little bit about discrete, random variables. right now let's talk a little bit about probabilities with continuous variables. and then we'll talk about the ubiquitous gaussian distribution that comes up a lot. okay, and we'll talk about the multiv cin distribution which some of you might have seen, some of you might not have. Okay, probabilities with respect to continuous variables. okay, we'll have X belongs to R. right now, just let's take. well, we can take, either X belongs to r or later on we'll see that we'll look at where the continuous variable is. D dimensional. okay, we have, you know, we have something called the PDF, which is the probability probab, prob- sorry, [Music], probility, density function, and we denote it by capital of PX. sorry, little PX, typically right, and it's a function. it's a continuous function. V of X is greater than equal to Z, right, and it adds up to one. what does it mean for a continuous variable? it basically is that the integral- suppose the domain is minus infinity to plus infinity, then the integral is one that's the analog of the sum of the random, of a discrete random variable. okay, similar to the sum Rule and the product rule that we had for continuous Rand, for discrete random variables we have the sum rule, which is that the marginal distribution is when we integrate out the other variables. suppose we have a two-dimensional Jo, a joint distribution between X and Y, right, we marginalize over y. that's kind of saying that we Sim an analogous to summing over all the different possible values of Y. and my product rule is that my joint distribution is the conditional distribution times the marginal. this is contain conditional distribution given X and or you can do BX, given y * B. okay, you know I didn't talk about it really in terms of in the discrete case, but you know you have the mean of a random variable, right. [Music], expectation or mean. okay, that is. suppose I have a function of a random variable, F, ofx, then I have in the discrete case- it would be sorry maybe I won't write it here. the discrete case, this is going to be integral of e of X, time, F, ofx, DX. okay, and in the discrete case it would have been summation of X, DX, FX. okay. in particular, I have that the expectation of the random variable is equal to XX. okay, in addition to expectation or the mean, there's another important concept called variance. okay. by the way, note that expectation has this property, that expectation of x + y is linear, is expectation of X plus the expectation of Y, and you can see that easily from the integral, because the integral will become the one integral will become the sum of two integrals. okay, now suppose I again, I have a function of x, f, ofx. okay, my variance is going to be the expected Su. squar deviation from the mean: okay, I said a lot: expectation, that's the first part. Square deviation is f? ofx from the mean. mean is expectation of f? ofx, okay, squar. okay. now if I take the quantity within the brackets, if I open it up, I get F of expectation of f of x² plus. well, you know, it's basically a minus B squ. right, I have a squ plus, I have this mean of f ofx. just be careful where you put the squares and where you put the brackets right. minus. I have two of this part which is f ofx times this part, F ofx times, expectation of f of x. okay, and remember, since expectation is linear, I have expectation of f ofx, Square, okay. plus I have expectation of expectation of f ofx. I'm just expanding out things, okay, I could probably go quicker, but I just want to show all the steps right. two of I have expectation of f ofx. find expectation of f ofx, okay. this first part Remains the Same: F ofx, okay. the next part is basically expectation of expectation, which is a constant. I get rid of the outer expectation or inner expectation- what? okay? and then over here I have two times. this is kind of a constant. I have expectation of f ofx appearing times the expectation of f ofx, right, two times. expectation of f ofx appearing twice, right. these two give me expectation of f of [Music] x² minus. I take the expectation of F ofx and then I Square it. okay, very important to notice where the squares are right. the square inside is inside the expectation and here you are taking Square Off the expectation, okay. in particular, you probably have seen this formula in. you know a course in statistics that if you have a variance of X, then I have. it is expectation if I, if I go back to this original formula right, I've just f, ofx is the f is the identity function, it's expectation of x minus. it's the deviation of each observation X from its mean. okay, it's x minus E, ofx, squ and what we did above. you can go through all the steps in particular for this, but you know we've already done this above. this is expectation of x² minus. you take the expectation and then you square it. okay, in addition to variance, when we have two or more random variables, and in particular we, for example, if I have a two dimensional random variable or a d conventional random variable, another thing that comes up is the co-variance. okay, and many times we'll use c as the denote, the covariance, the co-variance of XY is basically how this they kind of behave from the deviation from the mean: X, x minus expectation of X. sorry, a little careful time- Yus. expectation of Y. okay, and then if you again kind of go through the similar exercise as before, what you will find is that this is expectation of XY minus expectation of X, expectation of right, co-variance of X with itself is just going to be the variance, and that's what you'll get. you'll get expectation of x, squ, minus expectation of X, whole square. and that is if x equal to Y. now we' noticed, you know, we talked about a little bit about independent, random variables. right, what if X and Y are independent? okay, we have. if that's the case, then I have: P of X comma Y is equal to PX * py. if I have covariance of X comma y. remember, the covariance of X comma Y is X expectation of XY minus expectation of X expectation of Y. and if you think about what, this is right, this is basically P of X Comm y time XY, integral, Dy, DX, right, and if this breaks up into PX py, I can write this as xpx time xpy. okay, and that's expectation of x, find the expectation of. okay. and if I do this, then what do I get? that Co variance of XY is equal to expectation of X time expectation of Y minus expectation of x times expectation of Y. it's equal to zero. okay, if X and Y are independent. okay, the co-variance is zero if my two variables are independent. right, the co-variance of XY equal zero If X and Y are independ. okay, now let's talk a little bit about gim distribution and what my goal is: to tell you what a multivariate ga and distribution is. right. I don't know how many of you have seen that. almost all of you have seen. I'm sure all of you have seen what univariate G in distribution is. okay, let's start with that. but we will what towards by the end of class. we will talk about the multi gum distribution. okay, I have a gaussian distribution. okay, and that's also called the normal dist. okay, we'll assume in the univariate case that X belongs to R. okay, and the Gin distribution X. okay, there are two parameters in a gin distribution: mean and variance. okay, given particular X and sigma square. and many times we'll just, you know, not write the given part. we'll just say p of X or the PDF is given by this particular Formula 1 / < TK 2, piun time Sigma e ^ -2 x - mu 2 / Sig sare. remember that mu is the well, not remember. but mu is the mean or expectation. okay, and sigma square is the variance. for example, if you take this PDF and you calculate the integral of x * PX, you will get mu, and if you compute the integral of, you know that corresponds to the variance. then you will get Sigma squar. okay, in particular, XTX, DX minus infinity to Infinity is equal to Mu, which is the expectation, X. and then if you compute expectation of xus, mu s, remember, this is the same as expectation of x² minus mu^ s. okay, that's expectation of X squ. this is equal to Sigma squ. that I'm pretty sure that all of you have seen. But now let's move to the, to the multivariate case. now suppose I have X, which is a d dimensional Vector. okay, X has multiple components: X1, X2, XD. I think you should be able to clearly see that if I do expectation of X, that's going to be expectation of mu1, X1, which is mu1, let's denote that by mu1. expectation of X2, which we denote by mu2, and expectation of XT, which we denote by mu, and this we'll call as Mu. remember, mu is a vector, mu belongs to Rd. okay, and let's just look at the univariate variances. right, if I look at x i minus mui squar, let's say these are Sigma, i s, okay, there are D of these variances for each component of the V, but what we are interested in is a joint modeling. remember, X is an RD, really, X is a vector Vector. the joint distribution of X is, if I think about the kind of notation we had before, that's it, we are looking for the joint distribution of each of the components of the vector X. what is the multiv gaum distribution? well, instead of going straight to the gausin distribution, let's let's take a simple example first, and then we will extend it to the multivaried distribution. let me First Take, let's assume, that the XIs are all independent of each other. suppose XI is independent of XT for all I, not equal to. okay, they are all independent of each other. and we know that the joint distribution in that case is just the product. okay, maybe I'll just write it in case you're not familiar with this notation. but it is p of X1, P of X2, P of XD. that's the product of this and that is denoted by the symbol which is the product for I = 1 to D of P of XI. okay, and now let's write it out. right, what is p of XI? well, XI is a. you know, it's a gaussian distribution, and we saw that this was the formula for p of XI. P of XI is going to be 1 / <. TK, 2, piun, Sigma, 1 time e ^, x - mu 1 / Sigma 1 s right for for this will be 1 / squ < TK 2, pi time, Sigma 1. but let's just look at that, this thing which is before the exponential, right, how many times will it appear? there are d d times, right, there are D terms over here. this will appear D *, and then this will be Sigma 1, Sigma 2 to Sigma D. okay, and then the thing within the exponential, it will be a product of e to the power, same as here. same as here. I'm just rewriting it down over here: e^ minus 12 of X, IUS, mu, i² / Sigma. I square and the product is from I = 1 through D. okay, I rewrite this as 1 / 2^, IUN, d by 2. I haven't really done anything, I just take the square root right, written it as power half and written it this, and then I have Sigma 1, Sigma 2 to Sigma. okay, and now you need to notice one thing: this is the product of exponentials, right? if I have e ^ a *, e ^ B, that's equal to e ^ A + B. what happens is that I can basically turn this product into a sum. if I take it into the exponent, this becomes e^ minus 12. summation of X IUS, mu I squ / Sigma i². any questions far and remember, the summation is I = to. what I can do is I can take Matrix Sigma, by the way, sorry, because I don't think I can avoid it, but you know, this is a matrix Sigma, okay, whereas this is the not notation for a summation. okay, but I'm collecting things in a matrix Sigma, which is Sigma 1 squ, Sigma 2 squ, Sigma d s. it's a diagonal matrix with the variances on the diagonal and everything in the off diagonal is zero. what is the determinant of this Matrix? the products of the diagonals. determinant of this Matrix is the product of the diagonals. it's Sigma 1 squ, Sigma 2 squ, Sigma d s. it's Sigma 1, Sigma 2 time Sig D squ. this means that I can write this as 1 / 2, pi D / 2 times the square root of the determinant. remember, the determinant is a number. is that clear? okay? and now what about this term over here, this term here: x, i- mu i s / Sigma Square. maybe you can turn XI and mui into vectors and you can multiply them by. you can take the dotproduct of that of the vector minus the X Vector, minus the mean Vector squared. you can take that vector and you can multiply it by the inverse of the sigma Matrix. yeah, yeah, let's, let's go through it slowly. suppose I have x - mu, transpose * x - mu. okay, remember now, x - mu is a vector. huh, x - mu is equal to X IUS mu. I sorry, X xus mu is a vector, and that is X1 - mu1, X2 - mu2 to XD minus mu. if I write x - mu, transpose * x - mu, that is well, you can see it's going to be the sum of the squares, right? summation of i x IUS mu, i². it's starting to look a little this, except I don't have Sigma, I squ. okay, then, if my Sigma is diagonal. x - mu, transpose time Sigma inverse. x - mu is summation of i x IUS mu, i² / by Sigma Square. okay, and remember that Sigma is diagonal. let me just write it again, right? Sigma 1, S, 2, 2, Sig d 2. this Matrix, Sigma. okay, I apologize, because you have to realize that there are two sigmas out here, right, just by context. this is the Matrix of the variances and this is the summation sign. it's I = 1 to d, i = 1 to. okay, this says that my joint distribution in the case when I have Independence between XIs is: I can write it as: 1 / 2 pi D / 2 determinant of Sigma to the^ Half Time e^ - 12 x - mu transpose Sigma inverse xus. okay, I just wanted to kind of just show you that in the case of Independence I can write it this: okay. now let's look at the general case. General case. okay, in the general case, I'm not assuming that the XIs are independent. I have X belongs to Rd, okay, and let me. I have a multivariate calcium distribution. okay, and the PDF, what's it given by? well, guess what? it's going to be identical to this, except Sigma will not be D, The Matrix Sigma will not be dag. 1 / 2 pi b by 2 determinant of Sigma to the power half e to the power minus 12. x - mu transpose Sigma inverse x - okay, and where, where, as before, mu is the means, that is, Mu is equal to expectation of X. okay, and that's just the same as before: mu1, mu2 to Mu, D, mu I isal to expectation of XI. okay, but my Matrix Sigma is the- remember earlier it was the diagonal diagonal matrix with variances on it, but in general it'll be the co variance Matrix, that is, it's defined to be expectation of xus mu, xus mu trans, and in particular Sigma i, j is the covariance between XI and X2. okay, the Coan Matrix has the following property, remember, it is going to be a d by D Matrix, right, that's pretty easy to see. it is going to be symmetric- symmetric, okay, and is also positive definite. remember what positive definite means? that it is all. the quadratic form is greater than equal to all quadratic forms are greater than equal to zero, which means that the igen values of this Matrix are all. they're not only real, because it's a symmetric Matrix, but they're also greater than zero. that means, if I have Sigma, is V, Lambda, V transpose, right, which is the ion value [Music] decomposition. the only set of matrices for Which ion value decomposition and the singular value decomposition are identical are the positive definite matrices, positive, semide definite. it's either you can call it the SVD or I value decomposition. you know, Lambda is diagonal, okay, Lambda I, I is greater than zero. and the matrices V are are orthogonal, orthogonal matrices, right, they are the orthogonal matrices, orthogonal matri matrices where the columns correspond to the igen vectors of Sigma. and then what happens? we have Sigma inverse here in this formula: okay, Sigma inverse can be written as V, Lambda inverse, which transpose, okay, and the quadratic form half of xus, mu, transpose thing that appears in the exponent of the GS IND distribution over here. okay, that I can write as half x - mu transpose, V, Lambda inverse, V transpose xus, okay, what I can do is I can form another variable, Z which is equal to this. well, maybe, maybe I won't do that. okay, let me just kind of use a different color and let me say that I'll make this equal to Z. okay, I have Z is equal to V transpose xus mu, which means that half of x - mu transpose, just from copying from above- is equal to 12 of Z. oh, my two is starting to look Z, sorry. okay, it's equal to 12 of. I made any better, but it is z. let me try. Qui it. Z transpose Lambda, inverse times. Z, okay, and if you know noce, if I just ask you what are the Contours of equal probability density, then this will be P of xal to C, which is that it implies that you know, I have half of Z transpose Lambda inverse. Z is equal to some C Prim. okay, and if you think about it hard enough, or you can just expand it. you'll see that this is the equ Al to summation of Z i² / Sigma i², where Lambda is well, well, let me call Lambda isal- to Lambda 1 through Lambda D, okay, and in this case it is Lambda d, right, but remember that L, sorry, Lambda, I remember that Lambda, I are all greater than equal to zero. this, this is this, and if you know, if you, this is just the equation of an ellipse, okay, what that means is that in Z, right, my, and this is ellipse centered at zero. okay, this particular case is, you know, P of x, equal to some C. Okay, the reason I'm drawing it is but that many times, when you see a gaussian distribution, you will see the following picture, which is that, and when you look at things- principal components, analysis that you might have heard about, right, you'll see a picture. this not not the same as what I've drawn over here, because this is centered at the origin, right, sorry for the bad picture. by the way, this is supposed to be. these are all supposed to be symmetric ellipses. okay, let me see if I can draw it a little bit better. but, but, or similar figure, not centered at zero and not axis, parallel right. whenever you see things, PCA or you'll see- maybe I'll draw it below- you'll see something. you know there's a center over here. I don't know if it's my drawing is any better, but you know this is V1, this is V2, and remember, I'm drawing it in two dimensionals but there are d orthogonal vectors over here. right, this is p of xal to C, and why is this kind of? you know, this is going to be mu. okay, if you notice that my transformation was this right, that kind of said that I made the origin equal to zero and then I did the orthogonal transformation. when I undo that, I get this. this is how, sometimes, how the PDF, or you know, Contour plot of PDF, of G, okay, and these sigmas are supposed to represent these ellipse. this ellipse in some sense represents the covariance Matrix, right, it would be a, it would, these would all be circles if all the singular, Val or igen values were identical, right, the special case is that if all, if, for example, it was this right, then this is kind of saying that my Sigma is diagonal right and and that all my igon values are equal, for example, when you draw from a gaussian, which is, you know, unit variance in each Dimension. all the variables are independent, then the cience Matrix would be equal to the identity. okay, this is the Contour plot of PDF of multi CL. okay, any questions about this? you know, I just to recap, you know I started off by, you know, somewhat slowly, talking about discrete join distributions, discrete random variables, and we saw that there is a sum rule, then the product rule, and then we can extend it to probabilities, probability, density functions, where we have continuous variables. similar concepts mean variance, sum rule, product rule. and then we saw particular case of distribution, which of course is ubiquitous, the cin distribution. now many books will give you this particular formula directly and they'll say that, hey, you know, this is the mean and this is the covariance Matrix. but I wanted to build intuition, right. we showed that the in the case where all the- because many of you have seen the univariate cian distribution, right, that if the variables are identical, then you can write the PDF F of this in the same way as you write the PDF of a general multivar Gan. of course Sigma is special over here. it's diagonals, right, and remember that earlier we also showed that when X and Y are independent- where did I show it here. when X and Y are, when x, i and XJ are independent, then the co varience of x, i and XJ are is equal to zero. okay, and you can kind of make sense of why Sigma is diagonal over here. in General it is, it is the expectation of the covariance in general. it is a d? byd dense Matrix and you can represent the PDF, this and when we come to we'll probably briefly mention the principal components analysis. that's going to be kind of finding the principal components which are V1 and V2, which are we? some books will say it's the direction of Maximum variance of the data. okay, with that kind of. we conclude this again. background lecture on probability Theory and from next time we'll start talking about classification and we'll see how the modeling that we did, for example, today will straight away come in in the next lecture. any questions? okay, is there no more question? is there are no questions? then we conclude and we will meet on Monday. remember there's a homework. hope you have a good weekend and then from Monday onward we'll start talking about classification. see you on Monday. thanks, bye.