okay, today we will talk further about classification, classification, and we'll talk about, you know, two methods: one which has a lot of historical importance, called the seon, and then that leads us to, you know, a method that used to be very popular, used to be one of the best methods for classification, along with logistic regression, called support Vector machines. okay, and then, as you know, we conclude this, we'll start talking more about you know, other topics: unsupervised learning, and on in the next part of the course, but today let's first talk about the perceptron. the perceptron method was introduced a long time ago, it was first proposed in 1962. okay, and again it's for the classification problem. in the classification problem, let's again consider the two class classification problem, where you have, you know, class one over here, let's say this is C1, and you have these points that belong to class two. this belongs to class two, right, and the goal is to find again an automatic rule that separates class one from class two, right, we saw we can have a separating- sorry, a separating- surface are a separating hyper plane, you know a linear surface that separates class one from class two. and we saw that the equation of a general hyper plane is W, transpose x + W. the parameters are W and W, KN, right, and this hyper plane, all the points that belong to this hyper plane, are such that W transpose X plus W, equal to Z. and the perceptron is about trying to figure out these parameters, W and W, KN, a different way than what's been presented before. right far, we've looked at, you know, modeling the class, let's say with a gausian, and that in certain cases leads to leads to linear surface. then we also looked at logistic regression and generally, let's see here is the normal to the hyper plane, w is the normal to the hyper plane. and if I, you know, look at the unit Vector in that direction, that is W by the two Norm of w, okay, if I have any point x, KN that belongs to this hyper plane, right, that must satisfy. W transpose X, KN plus W, equal Z, which means that W transpose X will be equal to minus W. okay, what we find is that, you know, if, for example, I have a point over here, x, right, and if I look at this Vector, right, this is X, this Vector is going to be x - x, KN, okay, and if I then project it onto the unit Vector which is in the direction of W, which is W by W, W by Norm of W, W by Norm of w. then you know, we'll have that. the distance, this part is going to be the distance of X to hyper plane, and just to kind of make sure that we are talking about X, let me just put this in red, okay, and that is kind of the picture. and what is the actual distance to of x to the hyper plane? okay, that is going to be the projection onto the unit Vector in this Direction: w divided by Norm of w. times this Vector right, which is xus, X. knot, I have. okay, but one thing to remember is that this could have a sign, right, for example, if I have a vector on the other side of the hyper plane, the sign will be different. right, this is the signed, the distance. it could be plus or it could be minus. it's not just a purely a distance, it has a direction. also, this, if I expand it out, will be W, transpose x minus W, ided Norm of w. and remember, in this case, it is clear that this is the two Norm of w. okay, and now, what did we see? oh, sorry, I think I went, went one, I made a mistake. okay, this is W transpose x, minus W transpose X, KN. and what do we see from here? xot is on this line or in this hyper plane, and W transpose X is equal to minus W. okay, minus W is equal to W transpose X. this becomes coms: W transpose X plus W / the two Norm of. okay, let's make some observations. if I have a point in class one, okay, and W is in this direction, right, then W transpose X I. this surface is W transpose X plus W equal to Z, all the points that satisfy this. these points are going to be such that this part, this value, will be greater than zero, which means that the signed distance will be positive. and then for all points that belong to class C2, then they will be, they will have a negative signed distance. okay, I have class one, C1. let me just write it, write this down for class C1: W transpose XI. XI is part of the training set. okay, for class C1. maybe I should write explicitly: for class C1 and XI belong to C1. okay, I have W transpose x, i+ w is greater than zero, and that is true. again, I guess I'm assuming that this is on the correct side of the hyper plane, right, if this is the current decision surface, okay, now don't think of it as, let's say, the final decision boundary. but we are going to run an algorithm, which is what the percepton does where it has a current candidate for the separating hyper plane, right, and it'll kind of evolve this hyper plane gradually. this is true for all points x, i in C1 that are correctly classified, okay, and this is more subtle than this is not for all XI belong to C1, because there might be some points that are not correctly classified, okay. and then, similarly, for class C2, we have W, transpose XI plus W is going to be negative, okay, and these are for All Points in C2 that are correctly classified, correctly classified, okay, by this particular hyper plane, right, which is W. transpose X plus W equal to 0. okay, now you see that there is a difference in sign. I can just use an encoding of the label, okay, remember, I have, you know, the aing data is x, i, y, i, i = 1 through n. what I can do is I can say that all the points in the direction, kind of, of the hyper plane that are in class C1, there the Yi is + one, and I can say that for all the points in C2, y- i is equal to minus1, y- y- i = +1 or C1. that's the encoding that I'm using. Yi = to minus one. okay, and the reason for using that encoding is: now you can see that I've introduced a sign in Yi. what will happen if I have what? what if I do the following: that I take this W, transpose x- i + W and multiply it by Yi. what can you say about this X- Y pair? sorry, go ahead. it's always positive or zero for sorry, it's always positive. for what? for zero if when it's on the hyper plan? yes, remember that this is. this is, in some sense, the prediction and this is the correct label. yes, I have points which are correctly classified. right, let's consider the points in C1 that are correctly classified. this prediction will be greater than zero, positive and Yi is positive. that means that this is greater than zero for All Points, points in C1 that are correctly classified. what about all points in C2 that are correctly classified? well, this is negative and Yi is also negative. okay, hormos, you right that this is greater than zero, but the points that are correctly classified, exactly right for points that are correct L classified. this is, and these are XI in C1 or C2. okay, I basically just reduced this into one condition, okay, and then what happens? for misclassified points going to be all negatives, right, you could have, you know, some point over here which belongs to class C1, right, but where the prediction W transpose, or W transpose XI plus W, is less than zero, Yi is positive. for misclassified points, y, i trying, W transpose x, i + W is less than zero. okay, and if you think about it, right, the, what you can do is you can use this as a criteria. if everything is perfectly classified, then there will be no such Point. okay, what you can do is you can have a Criterion which is, you know, I can write it as d, as a function of w and W, KN, okay, which is summation of Yi, W transpose x, i + W, and this is I belongs to. let me just say m, okay, and M indexes the misclassified points, okay, and, and you know, this is less than zero. if I have some Criterion, for if I want to make you know, percepton makes this positive, puts a negative sign. that means that this, you can have a Criterion: where this is larger, the more the misclassified points and it is smaller, the fewer the misclassified points. okay, you can have this to be. you can have this Criterion which is minimize this over ww KN and this is the percepton Criterion. okay, sorry, my, the light went up. okay, this is the percepton criteria. okay, this we can think as the objective function and we may, you know, perceptor tries to minimize it. any questions. far, right, it seems reasonable, right, we, for example, if there are no misclassified points, right then, this will be. this Criterion won't be positive, right, I belong to. M will be the empty set and this is equal to zero and that's as small as you can get. you know one way that you saw, for example, in last time's lecture. we've seen this before. also, whenever you have an objective function, you want to look at the gradient. let me take the gradient of D, ww, KN. which kind of functions as a loss function over here here for the perceptron, what is the gradient with respect to W? well, let's see over here, right, it's basically this term: minus summation of I belong to M, Yi * x, i. minus summation of y, i, x, i, i belongs to m, okay, and then the gradient with respect to W is minus y, i. what can you say about minus I Yi. well, if you think about, let n i be the number of number of misclassified points, points in CI, N1 is the number of misclassified points in class one. N2 is the number of misclassified points in class two, and you can see that this quantity is just equal to minus N1, minus N2. okay, remember that Yi is + one for class one, that's why you get N1, and then it is minus one for cl and C2. okay, and similarly, I can write decompose this- this is just for you to kind of understand it a little bit better- that this I can break it up into the contribution from class one versus class two. right, it's summation of I. the misclassified points can either belong to class one- this is Xi, the misclassified points can all belong to class 2, and this is minus X. okay, and just to make it clear, you know, let me just index it by J. okay, we now have the objective, the law function for perceptron, we have the gradient. okay, let me first give you the perceptron update rule. right, remember, this method was proposed in 19, where. what did I say? 1962? okay, a long time ago, happy to say that this is. you know, obviously, lot of the material that I teach is that we look at, you know, has various history happy to report that this was before I was also born? okay, w w, KN. here is how the perceptron evolves. remember, we want to go into the direction, the negative direction of the gradient, right, we are going to do kind of gradient descent, right, and we can do the negative of the gradient is over here. okay, I have. if I have a step size Ada, then I have -, Yi, X, IUS, Yi. okay, and that says that the update rule is: WW, kn is w, w plus Ada, y, IX, i, y. okay, and remember that this is only done if XI is misclassified. now, one thing that you should note right is gradient descent. is this gradient descent? yes, it seems right, the gradient is a sum over all the data points, right, right, but there's no sum over here. okay, gradient descent would have been the following big difference: right, the gradient would be computed over all the points. okay, obviously, if n is very large, that means that for just one step, you have quite a lot of computation. you have order in computation Instead, This is only looking at one point. okay, this is: this is not gradient descent, but something called stochastic gradient desent. it's an example of stochastic. okay. what you do over here is you look at one training Point, XI. okay, let me write it over here: stochastic gradient descent. okay, and what you do is you look at the training Point XI and if XI is misclassified, then you go in direction of the negative gradiant. but you can think of it as: but only the contribution to gradient from XR, okay, or you can think of it as you know: an estimate of the gradient, okay, and you know you could say that: oh, you know why. just look at one point. well, that's what percepton does in general. you know, when we look at, for example- I think we also mentioned it in the previous class- that when we look at Deep learning, typically you would not do this because it would not kind of exploit the hardware well enough. you end up looking at a batch of points, but not the entire points. right, you can divide your total training data into different mini batches and then you can run stochastic gradient descent over the mini batches, okay, but but this is an example of stochastic gradient descent applied to the percepton criteria. okay, let me now write the perceptron algorithm. okay, perceptron algorithm: x, i, Yi, I is = to 1 to n is the training data percepton algorithm starts in the following way: you start with sum ww, KN- okay. and then you iterate by doing the following: you make a pass through the entire data set for I = 1 through n- okay. and once you are at a particular I, you look at XI, you look at Yi, you look at the current estimate of the hyper flame. if Yi, W transpose x, i plus W is less than zero, then what does that mean? if this is less than zero, that means this point is misclassified. if it is misclassified, then I want to do stochastic gradient decept, which is: I will then update my w and W KN by this rule: okay, w becomes W + beta, Yi, XI, W KN belong becomes W plus e, y, this thing. and then, of course, if there is, if this point is correctly classified, you don't do anything, and that's what you do. end4, okay, and then how many times should you repeat this? well, until wri, until there are no misclassifications, okay, and remember, misclassifications are mistakes right within the, for there has to be another exit condition. I guess because, right, because it might happen that it never. if, yeah, have a mingle points that we cannot classify with the hyper plane, right, it never going to. you can always have points which are, you know. the famous example is: you know the XR data set where you have class one being the pluses. this data set you can never separate by Hy linear surface. what hormos is pointing out is: well, there's a little bit of a problem with the code that I wrote. basically, it'll never stop, right? yeah, that that is a drawback of the percepton algorithm, remember I said it was. it's an important Milestone, it's a landmark algorithm, but it's no long, nowhere close to the best algorithm. I would not use the percepton, but historically it's very important. plus, just look at the updates. right, they're simple. suppose you class one, right, and you have a change, then what you're saying is: W becomes W plus * XI. if it is class two, you subtract, you do minus XI and W not is. basically, you know, you basically just do plus Ada or minus Ada, depending on whether it is class one or class two. it's also an easily well, I mean, you can understand each individual step level. okay, here's the following thing that you can say about the perceptron algorithm: right, it's not all bad, right, the perceptron. I'm not going to prove it in class, okay, but it is true that the percepton algorithm is guaranteed to find separating hyper plane if the data is linearly separable. note that I said a separating hyper plane. just very soon we are going to talk about support Vector machines which will try TR to find the best hyper plane, giving a particular definition of best, okay. but you know, by just by looking at the algorithm you might say you know you can't even say what it does, right, even if the data is linearly separable. but you can show that the percepton algorithm is guaranteed to find a separating hyper plane if the data is linearly separable. okay. but as we we've kind of already discussed a little bit, there are several drawbacks of percepton. okay. and then one drawback is that you know you do this sequentially. right, for IAL to 1 to n. what if you just change the ordering of the points? let's go back, think back to linear regression. right, if you change the order of the points, does the, do the W coefficients do? they are the invariant to it. if you think about it. they are. W will not change because that in that case we can find the globally optimal solution. let's suppose, if you solve the normal equations similarly with kind of logistic regression, right, but over here, right this: even if the data is linearly separable, the hyper plane that is output can depend on the order in which the data is presented to the algorithm. okay, if the data is l? larly separable, okay, then the hyper plane that is output by the perceptron depends on the order in which points- and by points I mean- the data is presented- is presented to the AL, okay. second is, it's not necessarily the most efficient algorithm. the number of iterations can be quite large, okay. and then the point that was already made is that if the classes are not linearly separable, then the algorithm might not converge, and what has been found is that what can happen is that there can be cycles that can develop and they are not to detect. okay, the percep algorithm, you know, very important in terms of the history of machine learning, also deep learning, right, but you know not, not the best algorithm. okay, we now move on to support Vector machines, which will not have any of these LS. it'll find the best hyper plane and will do it through a optimization algorithm. okay, let's talk now about support Vector machines. any questions far? on the perceptron, okay, let's look at support Vector machines, and you know they are called abbreviated with svms. right, suppose I have. suppose again, let me draw this picture: I have class C1 with Yi equal to + one. I have CL [Music] C2, y i = to minus1. okay, now, if I think about, you know, I've drawn it such that they are linearly separable. right, I can have a linear separator, which is you know this, or I can have a linear separator, which is this: which one intuitively seems better to you, the? my drawing is not perfect, but the blue line or the red line, yeah, the Blue Line, the Blue Line seems better. right, because you can say, oh, you know, look, if I have a point which is, you know, very close to C1, right, and it's over here, it's going to be misclassified by the red line, but but not by the blue line. right, because you kind of say, okay, this, the blue line, is somewhere in the middle, it, it's not close to one of the classes. okay, and that's what the support Vector machine will do. that you know, we'll call this kind of the margin, okay, and we'll see that we can have a formulation that maximizes the margin. okay, and I guess that the red line is kind of the, the, the, the line that perceptron can, can create, because as soon as, yeah, perceptron, can you know? I'm guessing that. I haven't really experimented that much with it, but I'm guessing the perceptron can find in some sense arbitrarily bad hyperplanes which might be very close to one of the points, because as soon as it doesn't see any misclassified points, it's just going to converge right, exactly. for example, if you take the perceptron and you happen to start with this red hyper plane, will it change it? no, because it won't change it right. there's an example where you know very simple, contrived case, but the perceptron will not give a good answer. okay, let's see how to overcome this, okay, okay, remember that the sign distance of x to hyper plane is the following: remember, we did this before. where is it s? distance to the hyper? W? transpose X plus W not divided by Norm of, okay. W. transpose x minus W. transpose x divided by Norm of w, which is the same as W. transpose X plus W divided by Norm of to. okay, remember, this is the signed distance. if I wanted to get the actual distance, which is kind of positive, I take it and multiply it by Yi. right, same encoding. Yi is + one for class one y. i = to minus one for class, two Yi times the signed distance. okay, is the distance of training Point, training point x, i to the hyp, and remember this numerator was just the Criterion that we had for percept. okay, now let us suppose, right, that we say, okay, this distance. right, we saw that one of the problems with this is that this is very close to a point in a particular class. why, maybe what we should have is we should try and make sure that this distance is large. okay, suppose we put the requirement that each of these distance- okay, not the accumulation, but each individual distance, each of these distances, is greater then C. okay, what I mean is that y itimes w, transpose x + W, divided by the norm of w, is greater than equal to this C, which means that I have Yi W transpose x + W is greater than equal to C * Norm of w. okay, and what linear support Vector machines? what linear support Vector machines do? okay, and the reason why you know we are saying linear is because they will only look for a linear separator, and later on we'll see that you can easily extend support Vector machines, that they can also find nonlinear separat, okay, but in linear support Vector machines we'll try and find the biggest C that we possibly can. okay, the goal is to maximize C. Okay, maximize C over all choices of WW, such that all points are correctly classified, but they are classified with a margin. not only [Music] are you know, not only are they remember this, not only are they greater than equal to Z, but they are greater than 3 *. Norm of w, which is what's given over here. okay, and this is true for all I equals 1. okay, this is one of the main ideas behind support Vector machines: that you want to not just get any linear surface, but you want to get a, a linear hyper plane that maximizes in some sense the distance to each of the points, and that's called the margin. we'll come to the case, for example, where there may be outliers in the data set and on, but you can change the definition of- you know what we are doing- to that particular case. this can be extended to points that are not linearly separable, but let's not get too far ahead of ourselves. okay, now you can see that this is starting to. you know, this is what's called a constrained optimization problem. right, you have some Criterion, and then you have an individual constraint, and I want each of these con STS to be satisfied. but before we kind of discuss this, let's let's make one observation. okay, note that we can arbitrary scale. okay, note that we can kind of arbitrarily scale W and W, KN. right, it will not change anything. right, if I have I hyper plane, W1 + W, W1, X1 plus W, W, 2x2 = + 5 = 0, I can equivalently say that, you know, 2 * W1 + 2 * W2 * X2 is 10, that could be the hyper player, right, we need kind of some normalization. what we can do is we can fix C, we can fix W, such that c * Norm of w equal to 1. okay, and we do this to elim, eliminate this degree of Freedom, since we can arbitrarily scale W and W do. if I do this, then this becomes: maximize 1 divided Norm of w [Music] 1 divided by the norm of w. and remember, this is the two Norm over w, w. and I just copy the rest such that y, i * W, transpose of x, i + W is greater than equal to 1. right, because I'm saying that C * Norm of w = 1 and this is over I = 1. okay, and then you know, it's a little awkward to have this in the denominator. I can change this maximization to minimization by, you know, changing this from 1, ided by Norm of w to Norm of w, and in fact, I can take the square, because the square is the monotonic function. okay, I can write this as: minimize w, w, KN, such that Yi * W transpose x, i + W is greater than equal to 1. I = 1, 2. okay, this is now the svm objective, and note that this is a constraint [Music] optimization. okay, and it turns out that this is a special constraint optimization problem with a quadratic objective and linear inequality constraints. okay, there are then hundreds of papers in the literature about how to solve this efficiently, how to scale this to a large data sets. Okay, and what I'm going to do is basically try to give you some indication about how to solve this problem, because it leads to some insights into the kind of solutions that are found. okay, any question far on the formulation itself. okay, we will see that. you know there are various ways of to solve this problem, right, and it turns out that every kind of constrained optimization problem, this you can write dual problem. it's kind of quite beautiful, right, you can have a dual problem which has different parameters that you optimize, and in certain cases, what you can do is you can minimize this problem- and this is sometimes called the Primal problem- and then you will see that there's a dual problem which we can maximize. okay, there goes my light, that being back off. sorry, I'm in a different room today, but you know I told you that my back was in right. I think this is good because I should move a little bit, doing much better. okay, I'm now going to take you on. you know we've tried to look at different kinds of mathematics in this class. right, we did a review of in algebra, we did a very brief probability review, and now I'm going to talk a little bit about constraint optimization problems, right, and I'll give you a little DeTour for maybe kind of half a lecture to how to think about certain kinds of constraint optimization problems, and then we'll see that by looking at that and by applying it to the svm problem, we'll be able to make different inferences about the svm problem. right, it'll turn out that the hyper plane is a linear combination of what are called support vectors. that's why the name comes from right. in general, you know, you have these points. this in class one, you have points in class [Music]. two, there are points which are, you know, you can have a separating hyper plane, okay, and then you can think about a margin, which is the first place that it touches parallel to the hyper plane, but the first place where it touches a point in the other class. and we'll show that the actual W that we get, okay, only depends upon those vectors that are touched over here, those that training data. that's one of the reasons why it's called a support Vector machine, because the hyper planes are kind of supported by these points and it turns out that that's why kind of it becomes. you know, also, this method works very well in practice, is very robust and, you know, was in some sense one of the best performing methods. this is the hyper plane. this is one ided by Norm of w. this whole thing is twice of Norm of w and W is, you know, the normal to theci. okay, what svms do is find, or you know, I should say SPM finds hyper plane with maximum margin. okay, and this is the okay. I have about 15 minutes left today. let me start on this slide detour. I'll still continue it next time we talk and then we'll, you know, make it particular to the svm problem. okay, let's, let's take a little break in terms of- sorry, not break, as in I'm going to stop lecturing, but let's take a D2. okay, let's look at a general constraint optimization problem, General constraint optimization problem, which has the following form: that you have an objective you are trying to minimize- let me call that as FN, okay, and then you have different inequality constraints. you know I'll use less than equal to throughout. let me write that- and suppose I have M inequality constraints. and then we have- let's also assume, we'll make it a little bit more General- that we also have equality constraints. okay, and you know I take this is the entire optimization problem, okay, and let me call this problem as one- I'll just refer to it later- and this is known as the Primal problem, and from this we'll be able to derive something called the Dual problem. okay, here, remember- let me just put some notation- that X is an N dimensional Vector, okay, and the, that means X belongs to RN, fi, remember, fi is a function that then Maps RN to R and similarly hi Maps, hi Maps, also rn2. then it turns out that when you look at this optimization problem, I can form What's called the lran, okay. what is the lrin? okay, the lrin is the following: it kind of combines the objective as well as the constraints. it becomes the function from RN, cross are M- okay, remember, there are M- inequality constraints- okay. and RP, where there are P equality constraints, and this Maps it to R. and what is the function? it's a function X, which was the original Primal variable. okay, just to make sure that you know, you realize that it is an N dimensional vector. and then I will have these other variables: Lambda and new. it'll turn out that this Lambda is M dimensional and Lambda I corresponds to the ith inequality constraint and new is p dimensional. it's the same as the number of of equality constraints, and new I will be equal to, will be, will correspond to hi. okay, let's write, let let's see what the lran is. where takes the objective FX. and then it takes this combination, specified by Lambda I, of fi, X Plus summation of I = 1 through P, new I, hix, okay, that's quite a lot if you have, especially if you haven't seen this before. okay, let's just kind of talk a little bit about notation, right, Lambda I is called the lran multiplier for I- inequality constraint, okay, and new I, or let me just call it new. J is lrange. multiply it, it turn out that they are slightly different, because one is in fi are the inequality constraints and the hi are equality con. okay, it's a multiplier for the iots, equality constru. okay, and these variables, Lambda and mu- new are also called dual variables. okay, and what will turn out is that, you know, corresponding to the Primal problem, there'll be a corresponding dual problem and instead of maximizing the Primal problem over X, we can- sorry, I say maximize. instead of minimizing the Primal problem over X, you can maximize the Dual problem over Lambda and mu, and that's, you know, one of the ways to solve the svm problem, very popular way, which is kind of gives you the most efficient ways of solving it. okay, corresponding to the lrin, we have What's called the [Music] lrange dual function. okay, the LR dual function will be. let let me call it basically, I'm going to eliminate X. okay, L was a function of X, Lambda, mu, and what I will do is I will basically try to find the minimizer of L over all x's and I'll call that function G and that is the Lan dual function, if I take the infimum over X of l, x, Lambda, mu. okay, and let me just expand. what L is, FX plus summation of I = 1 to M, Lambda i, f, IX, plus summation of I = 1 to P, mu, i, h, okay, and what? just kind of be patient with me for a little bit. okay, Lambda and mu are these? they are called the Dual variables and they are dual feasible, and I explain why that is in a little bit. if all the lambdas are greater than equal to zero, the news don't have any constraints, but you want the Dual value to be finite? okay, here's the fact. here's why the group, The dual function, is important. if I look at the Primal problem, this problem over here, and I say that when I minimize it, you know I'll get some xar, and I say that the minimum value that is achieved is f, not xar. and let me, if I say that that is p star, okay, what turns out is that the maximum value that the dual function can take is p St for any dual feasible: Lambda and mu. okay, and to remind you where P star comes from, P star is optimal value of the Primal problem, one that is, P star is equal to FN xar. okay, and Fact Two is the following: okay, and this is the most important part- right, and what it is going to say is it's what it's going to imply is that I have two choices. I can either minimize the Primal problem- I can just work with that- or I can move over to the Dual variables and I can solve the Dual problem. okay, if there exists dual feasible Lambda Star, new star, where you know, remember that for it to be feasible, Lambda star is greater than equal to zero, and you'll see that. you know, the reason why Lambda star is Lambda is greater than equal to Z is because fi is less than equal to Z. we are basically considering lambdas to be positive, that when we multiply Lambda I with Fi, it likely stay less than equal to zero. okay, and that's why there's no constraint on the news which correspond to the HR. okay, if there exist dual feasible and Primal feable xar, such that g of Lambda Star, new star- remember this is maximizing the. these values are maximizing the dual function. this is equal to P star is equal to F xar. then we have that strong, something called strong Duality FS. I'm just kind of giving you the exact conditions. you don't need to worry too much about that, but I do want to kind of make sure that. you know you. you know it doesn't always hold, strong Duality does not always hold, but it turn out that in the case of support v machine it will always work. okay, we are coming to the end of the lecture. obviously I'm not finished right in terms of teaching this material. just let's recap what we've done today. okay, we did. we looked at percepton, classical algorithm. lot of historical importance talks about the stochastic gradient algorithm, which is now the the, you know, most popular algorithm whose variants are trained deep neural networks. and then we said: well, perceptron has various drawbacks. let's formulate it as you know, that you want to try to get the best hyperplane, the best hyperplane, you know you give a particular condition. it turns out to be: have a quadratic objective with a linear inequality constraints, okay. and then you say, okay, well, how do we solve this problem? okay, to do that, we've taken a detour and talked a little bit about the Primal problem and the Dual problem, and what we will see next time is that you know, I'll talk a little bit, still continue what I was talking about, right, the problem in generality, and then we will apply it to the particular case of support Vector machines and we will get practical algorithms which, you know, in the early days of the internet, were used to solve very, very large problems. okay, that concludes this lecture. any questions?