as you guys know, now we start a series of guest lectures. the first is first. one is from Cho. he is an associate professor at UCLA and also a researcher at Google. fun fact, he is a former student of professor Energy. he has been at UT and he did his PhD here quite few years ago. but yeah, he has done a lot of amazing work all across machine learning and recently he has been doing a lot of good work on LLMs and prompting and doing them efficient, fine-tuning them. this talk will not be very detailed about all of these works, but you'll will give you a good flavor of what's what's been happening in this area and I'll let Cho take the stage now. yeah, thank you for inviting me to give a talk, and happy to. yeah, as Nish mentioned, I was in Austin 2010 to 2015. yeah, it's good, great to have a chance to talk in the lecture. yeah, today I'm going to talk about large language models, mostly focusing on how do people use large language models in practice and some challenges and how people resolve those challenges in real applications. and yeah, I I check the lecture, previous lectures and I think you guys already know about language modeling and transformers. we don't need to go into detail for that, but those two things are the main breakthrough that empowers the large language models. basically, people find if we train a neuronet network model to conduct next word prediction on a very large corpus and we train, we use the transformer architecture, then the resulting models have very strong capability in many different things beyond human, beyond we original imagine. today we're focusing on. when you combine this next world prediction and transform architecture, you get the language models and how. what's the how? how are the performance of LMS and how do people use them? this is some historical plot for the size of the models before this. this is before 2020. there's- I think you guys already heard about- the bird models and some earlier transformer models that are before 2020 and those are kind of here they are. they have a size around several hundred million parameters. this is the size of birth- large- I think it's 2018 models and there are bigger ones released later, but there are several hundred millions to a few billion parameters and in in around 20, 20 open train the GPD3 model, which increase the size of parameters by a lot, and at that and and at that time we don't know whether this is useful or not, but when the GP3 released, they show some very strong capabilities. first things they found is in GP3 is the scaling loads. well, we see the. originally we think when we train the model- larger models- at some point the performance will be plateau and you don't see much improvement, maybe beyond a few billion parameters. but this is not true. when you train the next world prediction language model of transformer, they found that when you increase the number of parameters and in the same time you also increase the data size and the compute for training loss network, then you see the test loss drop linearly as you increase the parameters and the asset size and compute exponentially. if you plot the in this, this kind of plot, you the x-axis are parameters, size and computes. they are in the log scale and you see it's a linear line in the log scale figure. this called a scaling law, which means as you keep increasing your, your model, your data and your compute, you get better and better performance. and, by the way, feel free to stop me at any point if you have any questions. yeah, a quick question on that: is this still true in 2025? that I think we, my feeling is we kind of see some limitation in tax domain, but I think for multimodel, there are still kind of satisfying this. wow, okay, yeah for for for tax pre-training. I think there are some barrier people are seeing, but- but I don't know whether it's algorith- There, there could be some better. one belief is, there could be some better algorithm you can use to to overcome the barrier, and by algorithm you mean some optimization method, tool or architecture itself. that's what we're working on. but there are, yeah, other things, many things people are trying. yeah, I see, okay, thank you, yeah, yeah, and what does that mean? when you see the loss decreasing? we, we may think this is just. for example, you have sentiment analysis. you increase the performance from n 95 to 98. or you have a machine translation task. you improve the blue score from 30 to 40 may. it's good, but does that? is it really a breakthrough? another important finding in around 2022 is that, as your language model becomes stronger and stronger, it's gained some emergent abilities. that's growing the, the perform. this means the. you see the performance on some benchmark increase, certainly when you, when you train the model up to, when you train a very large language model in the right figure, you see the, the. the horizontal axis is the parameter size and the y-axis is the accuracy and you see, when you're in some smaller model region it's kind of improving but not significant. but as long as you, your model, is larger than some threshold, then it start to blow up the, the performance start to increase drastically. what you see here and people call this emergent ability. and this, this is not only the ability you see on different benchmark, it's g, a general ability to handle many realistic task that we face every day. it's kind of amazing, not only perform very good on the benchmark set but you also gain a lot of general ability to solve general problems and and people, the people mimic. people call this emerging ability because we see this in human learning, in the. that figure is kind of the psychology thing. you see when, when we grow as a kid, from one year, two year, three years old, you don't see much improvement in ability. but when you go to four or five you see the kids suddenly becomes very mature and they can do many different things and the. the underlying hypothesis is that in psychology the hypothesis you, when you you're building up the connection between the neurons in your brain and as soon as you get more and more connection, suddenly you get, you gain very strong general ability to solve very many different task, and this is maybe the same thing in large language models with transformers. okay, today we're going to show what the large language models can do and we're going to talk about two ways to use it. first is the first way is fine-tuning, which I think you already see this in the previous lectures in earlier. when people use birds models or other smaller language models, they always do fine-tuning because your model learn something from the pre-training data and then you can fine-tune your model, which means you train the parameters of your model on some end task that you care about and then you can get good performance. and this finetuning can also benefit from large language model because you you have lot of neurons, lot of parameters to memorize lot of things in a pre-training step and that will transfer to high performance in downstream task when you do fine-tuning. but beyond fine-tuning, there's another very important usage of large language model which you can use it through prompting, without any finetuning, without even knowing the model weights. prompting means and- and I think the prompting is we are able to use it because the emergent ability, because language models up to certain size, they become able to understand the instructions, what you want to ask and what the task you want to do. you can tell them language model, what you want to do through the natural language prompt and then it can do many different things without any training. and basically, in prompting we instruct a to predict based on the instruction, which are natural language, and the good thing is you only require forward pass and you don't even need to assess the ways. for example, now you have lot of even closed source language model- GP, GBT and Germani. you can just ask questions and they can help you to perform some what you ask. and if you call the API, you can also use it as a model to do whatever you want to do. I will first in this talk. I will first talk about prompting and then we will spend some time to talk about fine-tuning. it's basically similar to bird finetuning, but there are some new challenge due to the size of the model. okay, prompting. I'll just first show some examples of prompting. basically, we there are simple prompt and there are more complicated prompt I will talk about. basically, you can tell the language model. this is a. you can think this is the kind of next score prediction, right, you? you give the prefix this: classify the text into neutral, negative or positive, and you give the original text you want to classify and you ask the language model what's the sentiment of this sentence? and and then you this, this whole thing is called the prompt, which is the prefix you pass into the l and then you do the next word prediction. for example, the N will say the next word is neutral, which means the this sentence is neutral. this is the len's prediction and and you can use similar things to do instruction. you can control the instruction to perform many different task. you can say: summarize the paragraph, which this will becomes a summarization model. once you enter the original paragraph, it will summarize the paragraph. this, okay, okay. those are the instruction probably many of you already use when you use treptt or Germanite to do something, to perform some work, and there are more complex instructions. this- and the amazing part- is able to understand complex instructions and even very long instructions. this is a example from big bench hard, which is kind of a collection of task, and hard means it's a one of the harder ones selected by people in. in this task, we want to ask the language model to detect the type of error in the translation and you can even define what are the, what are the potential errors you can made, and then, given this sentence, what kind of errors it's made, and then the language model will answer it. okay, we don't need to go into detail, but basically you can. this is just try to illustrate. you can give very complex instructions and to the LM and it can solve this task without fine-tuning. and then in the next few slides I'm going to talk about different kind of prompting technique people usually use. and the first techniques is in context learning, which just, I think people start to do this in GPT2. even though GB2 is not a very strong model, it's, I think it's much, maybe just slightly larger than birth model, but people start to see some in context learning ability. here. in context learning means you, you give the model k demos and each demo is the input output pair, for example. in this case I want to do sentiment analysis. the first demo you can see, we, I give the first demo: this movie is great, and the answer is positive. and then another sentence, another, another demo: worst film I've ever seen- the answer is negative. okay, you give a few of these samples and then you ask what's the sentiment of this and you want the ln to answer it. okay answer is negative in this case. basically, if you have some task, you have a few training data with input output pair, but you don't have much or you don't want to do finetuning, then you can just include all these samples in a prompt and ask to make a prediction. and this is called in context learning. I think earlier in three, four years ago, when, when it's only GP2, people start to talking about this, but at that time it's not very clear. we see in context learning can help improving the performance. but there are a lot of people try to answer why this is the case and there are lots of counter arguments. for example, there are papers showing if you, what do we learn from in context learning? there are argument in context learning, just try to fix the format, or even if you shuffle this different samples, you get very different result. there are some work showing if you give some, if you try to just give the wrong answer in context learning is still improving performance. maybe it's not really learning from the samples, but I think in the more recent ALM, because the capability is strong, much stronger it seems. mostly it will follow what you supposed to do in when you give some examples to a human or AI model. yeah, it's more stable in terms of the reranking or how you word each demo things that when you go to very large language models. okay, and- and there are- sorry, a quick question here- the current understanding of what you know how in context learning is helping an LLM is that it is sort of u I mean, the LLM is able to do some smart KN&N over the given examples. I see, yeah, I think the most recent, the most promising explanation is that it's kind of when you do the, you can imagine when you give some a prompt, this when you do the attention, it will try to attend to some more relevant examplers. and then it's kind of doing retrieval based prediction. yeah, in a sense u let's say there is a query which requires the learning to be a composition of two examples. the two examples, both of them help in answering something. then do you think on those task, then context learning approach might not work well? no, I think it's okay, it's, you can attend to two examples. I think the one explanation is it's kind kernel method. you can imagine you compute, you have some similarity or relationship between this testing sample and all the training samples, mhm, and then in in kernel method you try to compute the similarity based on the kernel right and here you try to get a similarity based on the tension mechanism. yeah, yeah, but I'm just trying to think something which requires some composition learning over multiple example. let's say, the answer of one example helped in maybe clarifying the question of the another example. but yeah, maybe, uhhuh, yeah, it's a good question. i think you're saying it's not a simple retrieval. you, you one example- contribute to part of the answer. another contribute: yeah, yeah, something that? yeah, it's. I think it's able to do that, but it's good to. Yeah, okay, nice, okay, thanks, yeah, and and and. there's explanation about why the language model have this in context learning ability, the hypothesis, probably in the pre-training phase, because it see a lot of data. you see many sequence of samples, kind of this in the pre-training and you know what you need to predict next, because you're doing next word prediction. when you see lot of sample sequence in the pre-training, you kind of know if you're given a sequence of things, you need to follow the rule to predict the next one, and then this is how the language model learn to perform in context learning. yeah, yeah. another important prompting technique and in particular useful for reasoning task is the train of thought prompting. in some domains, especially math, it's very hard to learn the answer, the. it's hard to learn anything from just the answer. for example, if you just do, if you look at the figure on the left hand side, if you just do standard prompting, in context learning based prompting, then you will ask a question and the answer is 11 and another question because the answer is just a number, it's doesn't give much information on how to solve this question and I think in this case the end doesn't gain much power by loss in context samples. and people find that if you, for example in this example, if you add the detailed derivation of how you get the answer- for example Example, instead of just saying the answer is 11, you say what, how you derive this 11 here in the prompt, then the model will also, when you, the model, see another question, it will also try to derive some sentences, which is the thinking process, and then eventually get the answer. and people find language model usually give much better performance if you have this kind of thinking process and the train of thoughts, reason, train of thought prompting means in the in context learning examples. you need to give the the thinking process for each example. the language model also learned that, given the question, it need to do the thinking process. it will improve the performance by a significant amount. and these are different kind of the the. the difficult part of this is, instead of just putting the data, you need to write the thinking process and not all the, not all the math, a data set or any data set you have. most of them don't really have a thinking process. you need to in the original coot paper, this kind of manually written down by human, and then we collect a lot of these samples and then doing context learning. okay, and this is the performance improvement. by train of thought. we can see large, larger models benefit more from the channel of plots and I think the intuition is. smaller models don't really know how to think. even if you ask it to think, it doesn't give a correct reasoning and sometimes it's even make more mistake because you have very long kind of reasoning process, any intermediate step. if you make a mistake it will be wrong. but we people see if you increase the model size then the train of thought can significantly improve the performance in GBT if you go to a larger one, it can boost the performance of GSN, GSM. I think those are the mathematical reasoning task and you can see you can improve the performance by 40% or more, which is kind of very significant. okay, and there are many variations of channel thoughts [Music]. yeah, I won't list all of them here. this is just some examples I'm more familiar with. for example, there's auto coot, which try to, as I mentioned here, the in the train of thought. you need to write the reasoning process by by by yourself. it's kind of hard sometimes, the. there's a line of work on automatic generating the thinking process here and the easiest way is you just have some meta prompts. you can ask a large language model, GT4, to to produce the thinking process and then you add them as the in context example, in the in contact example, as a train of thoughts, and and then there are lots of different designs on how you generate those automatic thinking process and how you- and they won't be all correct- how you correct the thinking process or how you select more correct ones to include and and and. there's also some other things. for example, I think in one of my example you can see, usually in some prompting for benchmark data set. you often see this: this sentence, let's think step by step. there's some paper showing: if you include this, this sentence, in the prompt, that's, think step by step, then this will trigger the LM to do better or more the thinking process and- and I think kind of underlying reason is maybe in the pre-training step, the LNC, many times if you want to think step by step, then this will associate with some some a reasoning process. when you artificially add this to the prompt, this will trigger the end to to to do something that and also there are other work. self consistency means if you you can generate multiple reasoning trajectory and then try to check the consistency between different trajectory to get the final answer. yeah, any question about this? okay, yeah, now we have a kind of understanding on how we write a good plan for hard, for example, mathematical reasoning task. you usually have an instruction and then you can put some in contact examples: a qu question answer, question answer pairs, and for each question answer pair you have a train of thoughts, reasoning in between which will improve the will trigger the language model to do the thinking process in the testing time. and then you have a final question: you want the language model to answer and then you put this whole thing as a prompt and the language model will try to reply by the answer. okay, you can see there are many different things in prompting and and you, you need to write things, this and you need to write the instruction and how you organize everything together. there are lot of people working on just purely forming a prompt to communicate with large language model. if I- I think I did this Google search- this is even more than one year ago and there are lots of already lots of pages talking about how to do prompt engineering. and there's the. there's a page saying AI prompt engineer can earn more than 300k salaries, which is which shows this is an important task and many people try to do that. how prompt design typically works. usually the prompt engineer or domain experts. they will design some initial prompt, they pass the prompt to ln to get some results, to get some evaluation, and then, based on the evaluation results, you can you can look at the results and refine, improve your prompt and then you do this again to convert to some good prompt. this is kind of require a lot of human, human involvement. that that's why we see the prompt engineer can earn a lot of a lot of salary and it's really hard to know what is a good prom. it's kind of a trial and error process and and also it's there's other problem. if you're, we see companies- Google or GBT or OpenI or Facebook- they release L every half year or every one year whenever there's new LM. you might need to refine your prompt based on the new LM, which is kind of very hard task. in the final part of prompting I will talk about automatic prompt engineering, which is the goal is to automate this whole process. we want to remove the human or prompt engineer here and replace this by an algorithm or AI model. we want the automatic algorithm and it and it should be efficient- to generate prompt to optimize the performance, the. the problem can be formul this: you have a task and you have some data and you are given some L model which will be used for, for, for inference. I want to, I want to have the algorithm to generate the, the prompt, to optimize the performance based on this task and training data when you use the, this ln, as a inference engine. basically, the automatic prom engineering are usually useful when in the situation. there are two useful situation. one is if you don't have resource or you to train or you don't have access to the LM, then very naturally you can just try to optimize your prompt to get the best performance. that's very important in those scenario. and another useful scenario is you have some ln with some with small data sets. we found if you have very small data set, less than 100 samples, then it's very hard to even do fine-tuning because, because you can imagine there's only 100 samples, it's very easy for and your language model have more than 100 billion parameters, it's very easy to overfit those 100 sample. and but if you use promp engineering by this 100 samples, then it's less easy to overfeit and usually have better generation performance. okay then, and then in the next few slides I will talk about a few. I think I need to move. I will talk about a few prom- automatic prompt engineering algorithms. all of L share a similar thing: they are trying to use LM itself for prompt engineering. okay, the first work is is this is called AP. their goal is to. we can see from here for for any prompt you have an instruction here the they ask the question if I'm given some input output pairs and can I use ALM to automatically generate the instruction based on the input output pair. I don't need to write down. maybe I don't. I'm not exactly sure what's the instruction I can I should use or I don't know what's the best way to write this instruction I can. the question is, can I use the training data- just three or five input output pair- to automatically generate this instruction? the interesting things they use to do this right, they show, if you, if you look at this blue part, blue blue block, you have some demonstration about the input output pair and then you can ask the ln to generate the instruction based on this input output pair. it's kind of saying, professor Smith, because I think there's people, there are people earlier state earlier, few years ago, people find if you write something more professional here, then it will generate better results. basically this: this prompt is given the input output pair. the ln- look at this prompt- will try to generate the instruction for for this task. and then you have other parts. you can generate multiple instructions and then you try the performance of each, of lens, for example, the. you use this prompt to generate a lot of instructions. you run each instruction to get the performance of them and then you choose what you want to keep and then you do the few iterations of this. okay, but this is only about instruction. how about, in general? how can we use prompt engineering, automated prompt engineering, to improve the performance or improve the prompt? most of the work along this line follow the evolutionary search framework where we have some initial prompt for for the algorithm, which is kind of a? m. with the initial prompt we try to generate some, a pool of candidates based on we can re, we can ask to randomly rewrite a sentence in in a prompt, or randomly summarize or rewrite or do anything you want to, to, to, to, to edit a prompt, and then you can generate a pool of prompt candidates and then you can evaluate those prompt candidates on the evaluation data I mentioned. we assume, for example, you have 100 data to evaluate how good is the prompt, we can evaluate the performance of each prompt, and then you get the results and then the results, the the algorithm can look at the results to decide which problem they want to keep in the pool or what, how to rewrite the prompts in the next iteration, and then you do this iteratively every time. you are supposed to keep the better prompt and then you learn how to rewrite a prompt to optimize the performance after several iterations. you can keep improving the performance of your prompt. okay, this is another diagram to illustrate the, the algorithm I mentioned here. you have top k prompts. you have, I mentioned, you maintain a pool of a k prompts. k can be five, 10 or some smaller numbers and and every time you can randomly select prompt and to generate a new prompt from here I mentioned, you can rewrite or add anything or delete a sentence from the original prompt and then evaluate the updated one from the training data, from the evaluation data, and then decide whether you want to add to the pool or not. and and it's a we call, it's a bin search framework, because you keep the top K prompt. it's kind of in the L decoding procedure. you keep the top K, top K candidates when you do the decoding, okay, and you can see as the- this is the training process- as the iteration goes. number of evaluation means how many times you evaluate the prompt and as the iteration grows, you get better and better performance on the downstream task. sorry, this part I didn't get how, once you select a randomly selected prompt, how do you generate a new prompt? okay, yeah, the simplest way. you can just randomly rewrite a sentence, or rewrite a paragraph, or rewrite the whole prompt, you asking the L to do the rewriting. we found that is the most effective way and there are also other operation you can do. you can remove some sentence or you can summarize the prompt, but this doesn't get the input that this randomly selected prompt got this score, Oh, yeah, and historically these prompts have gotten these scores. maybe use it to somehow, Yeah, in in our paper. we have some ways to use it and, for example, you can, based on the history you can know, maybe, maybe your prom have five or 10 parts and based on the history, you know which parts is more potentially can give more improvements. and maybe there are some parts that you, wherever you rewrite it, doesn't change the results. you don't need to do it anymore. that's one thing and also you can do- you can give the previous history to the re rewriting here to say previously, there are some successful rewriting examples given here. how do you rewrite this sentence? I see, yeah, there are ways to use it. the feedback: yeah, but I didn't show it here. yeah, nice, thank you. yeah, we see, by just rewriting the sentences in the prompt, you can improve the performance by quite a lot. this is, this is a benchmark, big, big bench, hard benchmark. if you run the evolutionary search algorithm for 50 iterations then you can get pretty good improvements, sometimes over 10%, on the those challenging task. and if you try to see what the prompt engine, a automatic algorithm, do, it's just rewriting some part of the the prompt and it doesn't really change the meaning. but even those smaller change can improve the performance by a lot. and you can imagine, if you're a human it's. you don't really know how to rewrite it because there just the same meaning sentences are, just have the same meaning. yeah, also one more clarification question: the rewriting language model is the same as the actual language model which is getting tested, or that is? that's a good question. we found the rewriting model has to be stronger. you can, you can use the same one, but it's better if the rewriting model is a strong, a larger. it's a good LM, but does it need to be from the same family of models? something doesn't. I think it doesn't need to be, but there are. there are also some work showing if you rewrite using the same family of model is getting better performance. okay, because I think the intuition is, if you're using the same family of the models, it knows the it's more distribution of the model. yeah, even with the tokenization- something basic- it uses the similar tokens to see the world. yeah, yeah, maybe that I would expect. okay, yeah, good question. yeah, thank you. yeah, we also show this in some. yeah, we also show this is important for some. prompt for diffusion image generation model. this is a diffusion, stable diffusion image generation model where you have a input text and you ask a diffusion model to generate a image. this you can see. you, we see lot of successful example, but the diffusion models are not very stable to the input tax, for example. this, yeah, these are some failing cases I found in the data set. for example, you ask the clear and ash clouds were shifting across the z sky, but I think it's doesn't look that. and and there are many, many failing case for the diffusion models and we found it's can be partially resolved by writing a better prompt. for example, this is the work in last year, two years ago, where if you use the same similar search algorithm here to to add some keywords into the input prompt, then we can improve the performance by quite a lot. for example, this is the original prompt we show in the previous example and if you add some more keywords here, it's getting a very good generation results and same for the second example here. okay, that I just want to say this is not only for text and for multimodel, LM or generation models. it's also important to get a good prompt. and yeah, then there are some other work on the prompt optimization. this AP algorithm becomes quite used quite a lot and the. the different between this one and the evolution search algorithm is that we are trying in AP algorithm they are trying to correct or inject new knowledge into the initial prompt. for example, in this case, the in prompt is it's detecting jailbreak attack and then you [Music] can you can try to run this prompt on the, the evaluation data. you get some. in some case it will. you. you try to find where, where, what mistake it is making. for example, this is the input and this is the mistake we show. the prediction is different from the label and the main contribution of this is they are saying we can pass this, the, the arrow example, and the prediction, the true label and the predicted label, into the can can think what could be the potential issue of the original prompt and they can generate. They call this gradient, but the gradient is another text prompt. this is saying the there's a error because the prompt assumes the user attempt to break through the AI system would mention it in their message, but that could be more sub indirect. and then you pass this gradient to the pro, another ln to combine this correction with the original initial prompt. you get a new prompt. this, okay, this is. you can. we can kind of think this is follow the same framework where you use the ln to generate a new prompt. but in this case, when we generate a prompt, it's using some error made in the previous examples and there's a reasoning behind how to generate new prompt. this quite interesting, and this tend to. with this algorithm, you are able to not only rewrite the sentence but you can correct the original prompt or you can add more information into the prompt. okay, this is the recent work we're working on, where we try to connect the prompt learning with the model interpretability. in the work we try to, we argue that prompt learning is a way to learn interpretable models and- and I'm using this Pokemon classification as an example- for example, if I have, if my A doesn't know anything about this set of Pokemon, a species, and I want to. I'm given a few examples of Pokemon with their names, and when I see a new Pokemon I want to predict what is this picture from a human we can easily see this is probably this one. but we want a n to learn from this and we want the learning process to be interpretable such that you can learn the knowledge on how do you decide which one is this Pokemon species. this cannot be done if you just do fine tuning, because if you just do fine tuning, then you just have a new model and you don't know why. the model can make this prediction- okay, but it will be, but the model will be interpretable if we fix the model and we just learn the prompt. for example, if I'm given the data, this, and I just apply whatever I mention, the prompt learning algorithm or prompt engineering algorithm, we get the description, we get this prompt which give me a very high performance- 90% performance- then this prompt is kind of telling me how I should classify the, this species of the Pokemon. for example, if I have an algorithm given this data, I generate a prompt saying a creature is rucks if it has four legs, the first one. if has two legs and orange body, it's- oh, I think there's a typo- is Ruby Ruby. otherwise it's the. the third one. but anyway, this is a kind of a prompt, including the description of how you make the classification, and if we learn this prompt and this prompt make very accurate prediction, then we kind of know. This reveals how the this should be classified and as human we can understand. what does this mean? u? what's the decision rule? I won't go into detail, but you can imagine, if we have some very powerful prom optimization algorithm to generate the prompt from the data, then we kind of achieve this interpretable learning goal. in this paper we have proposed something called LM symbolic program, where, instead of having only one prompt, we try to structure it as a tree. we have a tree and each node is a prompt and you make a decision based on passing this prompt to the ln to make a decision whether you want to go left or go right. this is a kind of decision tree by each node is a interpretable prompt where you can understand why you go left or go right in each node and as a result, we are able to generate this kind of decision rule in the first row in the first node. the prompt is saying: we want to. if the creature has the orange body, then we should go left. if it has red body we should go right, and then the creature four legs, then it's a ruby, is two legs, then it's arox and you can basically follow. this is how the model predict and as a human we can follow this decision rule to predict this kind of. we can understand what's going on in this data set and how to make classification here. okay, and and why is this useful? why do we care about Pokemon classification? it's very useful in many domains where we, the LM, doesn't have enough knowledge to make a classification but we want to learn from the data. for example, this is a one of our collaboration with some biomedical lab where we want to classify, determine whether the image shows invasive carcinoma or not. it's kind of the breast cancer. we want to detect whether there's a breast cancer or not. if you just pass this image and this instruction to the language model, it will say it will give some prediction, but it's not very good accuracy though. we talk with some doctors. usually they expect the prediction to have more than 90% accuracy to be useful. 65% is totally not useful for them, and then you can. what we can do is we pass those data to LM. we try to learn. use some prompt learning algorithm to learn the prompt. combine the prompt this with this new prompt, we can get greater than 90% accuracy on predicting this cancer cells. and even better thing is that in because it's just a prom, we don't really change the language model. we are using the same Germany flesh model, but just with a more complex prompt learned by the process. we know all the information learned from data is in this prompts and we know when you look at this, when you make a prediction, you need to look at the some of these features and then when the feature have some symptom that means there's a cancer. yeah, basically, this, a prompt engineering, is very useful, not only for achieving better benchmarking performance, but it can be used for learning from the data and then interact with the domain experts. okay, yeah, any question about the prom tuning parts? okay, we only have 15 minutes. I will quickly go through the parameter efficient finetuning part. it's just a few slides. we- I think you already see in in previously in birds or smaller language model- we always do fine-tuning. we have pre-trend and then finetune. but in the large language model what's change is the size of the model. if we want to fine-tune the model, it require a large amount of memory. for example, if you have 100 billion models and you want to find this on a task, then you probably need more than eight, more than eight or maybe more than 20 GPUs to even fit the model to and able to conduct better propagation. for training, the memory requirement has become the bottleneck. if you want to fine-tune the larger language model especially, yeah, there are kind of different scenarios. for example, people in industry maybe they care less about this because we can just easily run it on on hundreds of TPU or GPU, but in, for example, my students in UCLA or in the academic, usually it's very hard to finetune the whole language model. the main requirement is too big for standard GPU we use. how do we? there's a line of research to overcome this challenge called the parameter efficient finetuning, the. the main idea is, instead of fine-tune the whole language model, I want to fine-tune a smaller subset of parameters such that it can be the training can require much less memory and I can run this with much smaller GPU and even in the academia. okay, I will basically describe a few parameter efficient finetuning path algorithms. and the first one is kind of the very simple baseline is that you just fine-tune the top k layers of your language model and that's kind of people already use it long time ago, earlier. for example, if you use birds or earlier language model, Elmo or things that you just fine-tune the classification head when you use it for some classification task, that's kind of the top layer and in general you can fine-tune the top K layers of your neural network and the benefits is your gradient only need to be computed on the top K layers. if you're familiar with B propagation, then you will forward propagate to the loss and then you only need to bet prop to here you. for the rest of the part, you don't need to maintain any information in those hyperarameters. the memory requirement will reduce from this whole thing into the top K layers. and another simple way people do is to add a adapter model. adapter model can be anything but in general the adapter module should be the some kind of neuron network, small neuronet network that map the input to the output with the same dimension. if the input is d-dimensional vector, the output should also be d-dimensional vector. you can insert this adapter into any kind of layer in your neuron network because it won't change the dimension. you can just insert it into some part of your neural network to add some trainable parameters and then you only train the parameters in this adapter instead of the full neuron network. this is one earlier adapter people use which is kind of similar to the fully connected layer in transformer, but you usually use a much smaller rank here. the R is much smaller. here you have a input D dimension and you have a fe forward network to down to to get a smaller al. it's kind of different from transformer, fully connected, because in original one you are increasing the dimension, but here you want to have very small number of parameters. you you typically decrease the dimension as non and then have another up projection to recover dimension and but the. the problem of this approach is that you add some additional inference cost to the neural network. assume, imagine you're adding this component into a fully connected layer. when you have a input dimensional vector, you need to pass it to the original layer. you also need to pass it to this adapter layer and then you add the result together or any kind of combination. [Music]. there's a. this become less useful in recently and a simpler approach which is more inference friendly is called Laura. Laura is becomes, I think, the most widely used path algorithm and the idea is kind of similar to this adapter. but the different is I don't introduce nonlinearity. I have a D dimension here. i just down, project it to R dimension and then up, project it back to D dimension. you can imagine it will look this: you have the input X. there's the original weights here, which is which are frozen because we don't want to train the original weight. it's too large. we just try to train the Laura adapter here, where you have a two matrix, A and B. with the A is a projection matrix to map D dimension to R dimension and B is the R projection to make it back to D dimension. you have input, you pass both sides and you get the output and then you can go to the next layer. mathematically it's written this: the original layer is h= to w * x. with Laura you have h= to w + arpose time x and the good thing about this is you can add these two things together in the inference time. you don't really have additional inference cost. yeah, and in Laura we usually initialize, usually we want to start from the original model. we initialize one of this metric to be zero and another to be normal distribution. a * b is at zero at the beginning, which ensure you your initial point is the original lm. and then we solve this by some standard optimizers. and, yeah, basically people use dora because we believe there's some low intrinsic dimension in the neuron network and some low dimension adapter could capture important information for some particular task. yeah, I won't go into the results in detail, but basically this is from the original Dora paper where we they show it's getting very good improvement and it's kind of competitive to have fine-tuning in certain task. but in general I think now there's lots of people using LORA and finetuning in general there's still some gap between Nora and finetuning. people are still trying to reduce this gap between parameter efficient finetuning and the full finetuning. okay, final two slides. I will talk about one of our recent work just published this year on Laura finetuning. we found there's a a very, very bad training dynamic when you trend Laura with some all the existing optimizers. for example, if I use Adam to train the Dora A and B parameters, you see the A parameter are. this is the known of the A, it almost never gets updated and most of the updates are on B and this will cause the problem because you originally want to trim both A and B, but now you A is kind of fixed and you just update B, which means you lose half of your expressness of your Laura adapter. and- and we found the main reason of this is the- is that existing OP optimizers are not scale invariant and the scale invariant is very intuitive idea where if your neonet will have the same weights, same weights, then you should get the same DORA updates. we add a, b, a *, b into your neuron network. if my a, I have two lower pairs, a1, b1 and a2- b2. if a1, b1 equal to a2, b2, then they correspond to the same parameters. we expect the optimizer should make the same updates no matter how you parameterize your a1, b1 or a2- b2. if a1- b1 equal to a2- b2, we should get the same update in these two pairs. but all the optimizers are not doing this. even if you just scale a matrix by s and scale up another matrix by one over s, then you get a totally different update and I think that's the reason why is you are not updating the a factor because the scale is usually the scale is incorrect. one of the factor is getting very small update and the other is getting bigger updates. I will, due to time constraint, I will not go into detail, but in general, we define notion of untransfor gradient. this is kind of a gradient that is invariant to the transformation I mentioned here, for no matter how you parameterize your A1- B1, you always get the same gradient- untransfor gradient- here. and using this on transform gradient, we can do the updates, which is will become transformation invariance, and these are the results we can see. by just changing the optimizer to this new one, we can improve performance significantly. especially, we see lot of improvement on generation task, harder task, a math reasoning or some generation task. okay, yeah, in conclusion, today we talk about large language models and how do you do prompting to use large language model as black box and how do you do fine-tuning in a memory efficient way, especially if you don't have SS 200 of GPU? then probably you should consider some of this if you want to fine-tune the model. okay, yeah, thank you very much and happy to answer any questions. I have a quick question, but I'll wait if others have questions to ask. okay, i was just going to ask for the last, Laura right, that you talked about here. I mean, assuming that we can come up with some A and B which which are initialized similar to each other is: is that going to solve the problem of the different gradients? and assuming that A and B can be such that it still get multiplied to give zero? yeah, that's a good question. that will kind of partially resolve this behavior. yeah, but still it won't be a scale invariant or transformation invariant. the, the scale transformation can still change during training. we still, even if you don't have this behavior, we still some see benefits of using scale inference, transformation, invarance optimizers in those cases. and yeah, and, and you're correct, i think starting from some better randomness is kind of a stronger baseline. but I see, and then my next follow-up question is then: is there a value of the scale invariant optimizer beyond just Lora parameter, something the MLPS inside transformer layers also looks something similar to in the opposite way, right? yeah, that's a good question. we are also trying to thinking along with: Okay, okay, makes sense, okay, yeah, I'm guessing there are no more questions. let's just thank Cho. it was a great talk. i I know most of these topics, but still, I got to learn quite a lot. yeah, thank you much. yeah, thank you, and yeah, I guess we are almost on time. we can just leave now. bye-bye.